Hello everyone and welcome to
tonight's episode of Critical Role
where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors
sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons.
(raucous agreeing noises)
Before we get into tonight's session,
we do have a few announcements to get through,
beginning with the first of our two sponsors,
beginning tonight with Skillshare.
Sam, if you don't mind.
Back this week is Skillshare,
an online learning community with tens, nope,
with thousands of classes on creative
and entrepreneurial skills for the curious mind.
Premium membership gives you unlimited access
on classes from everything from personal productivity
to art, animation, photography.
Skillshare is affordable, with annual subscriptions
starting as low as 10 bucks a month.
And there's a special on for you Critters,
two month premium membership free--
Free free free
For the first,
for the first 500 people who sign up now
at skl.sh/critcalrole2.
I don't know why, it just is.
But the word two or the number two?
The number two, it's on the screen.
Okay.
Now, I checked out their classes
and I noticed they don't have any classes
on the one skill that I'm best at,
being a corporate shill, so tonight,
(laughing)
tonight, I'd like to offer a class called
Online Advertising 101 with Professor Sam Riegel.
(laughing)
Greetings, class.
In this seminar, I don't know how to hold a pipe,
(laughing)
in this seminar, you'll learn the fundamentals
of satisfying sponsorships of tabletop
RPG streaming shows.
Harry Potter.
(laughing)
There are many ways to do an ad
but to be a shill for your sponsor,
you must master the pinnacles of the form:
raunchy poems, cheap costumes and fake movie scripts
featuring '90s sitcom icon Gale.
Lesson one--
Fake?
(laughing)
When brainstorming, always begin with the MATT system.
That's M-A-T-T, it's a mnemonic, a ma-nom-i-conic.
(laughing)
M stands for music.
Buy a cheap rhyming dictionary
and compose a masterpiece like this one:
pull up a deck chair, pluck out your ear hair,
soil your underwear, Skillshare.
Woo!
(clapping)
That song cost them $700,000.
(laughing)
A of the MATT system stands for accents.
Foreigners love being made fun of.
For beginners, try Italian.
(laughing)
Oh no.
Eh, I'm-a from Italy.
I own a Vespa and eat-a the gelato.
I love-a the Skillshare.
Bon giorno.
(laughing)
Oh.
No.
That was better than a lot of your other accents.
Pretty good.
Video game on the fly.
T of the MATT system stands for, oh shit, uh shit,
all right.
What?
Uh shit.
Are you missing a prop?
I was supposed to have a prop.
A prop of what?
I forgot it.
Matt, Matt!
You're supposed to
keep going!
I'm just gonna keep going.
I'm just gonna fake it, I'm gonna fake it.
T stands for what?
T stands for terrible food.
When in doubt, just be gross like this,
what was supposed to be a cup of beer and ranch dressing.
Maybe it is.
Oh thank god it's not here.
Skillshare.
That was
so much better, please forget things.
And the last T of the MATT system is time.
People love long advertisements.
(laughing)
The audience tunes in to find out what will happen after
their favorite character tricked a witch with a cupcake
but you, the shill, must stall as long as you can
with ad copy that seems to go on forever, like this one.
Well, that's lesson one.
Future lessons will cover how to piss off
the crew with technical requests, how to,
(laughing)
how to deal with an irate sponsor
who hates your underwear song, and how to make
Laura Bailey regret sitting next to you for two years.
Until then, Skillshare.
(applauding)
Yes.
That was one of the finer--
I didn't get to drink the beer
and the ranch dressing.
Oh no.
We're so sad.
What that woulda looked like?
That was like seeing Little Women again.
(laughing)
There you go.
Thank you, Sam, and thank you, Skillshare.
For your patience.
(laughs) Our second sponsor tonight
are our returning friends for all of
campaign two of Critical Role, D&D Beyond.
D&D Beyond!
An amazing online tool for digitally keeping track
of your campaigns and your D&D characters
and all sorts of rules and content.
They are amazing, if you haven't checked them out,
you can go ahead and do so at dndbeyond,
that's D-N-D beyond.link/criticalrole.
Craft your perfect warlock.
That one.
Thank you, Ashley, for your support on that one.
(laughing)
The spirit movin' ya, it's movin' ya.
Gotta let it move through you.
You gotta let it carry.
(talking over each other)
It is.
It's the lyric and I love that tune even more.
So,
next up, we announced today,
as part of uploading our new Handbooker Helper
for the Monsterhearts 2 game.
Outta the blue.
Yep, outta the blue.
That's what we do.
For those not familiar, Monsterhearts is
a great game system that deals with kinds the
angsty teenage experience but you're also secretly monsters.
It's really fun, it's a really unique form
of really narrative-heavy roleplaying game.
We put up our new Handbooker Helper about it
and we are doing a Valentine's Day one-shot that'll be
coming out next Friday for you guys to check out.
Super excited about it.
At 7:00 p.m. here on our Twitch channel and then
it'll be available on our YouTube shortly thereafter,
but for those of you who are either stayin' in
for Valentine's Day or wanna go ahead
and check it out after the weekend or thereafter.
Lookin' forward to it, it's gonna be a lotta fun.
I'm the Master of Ceremonies for it, the MC,
and we have a wonderful cast that includes right here,
our wonderful Taliesen Jaffe and Ashley Johnson.
Joining us, we have our long time friend and amazing person
Erika Ishii.
Yeah.
And joining, for the first time,
the Critical Role family, our friend Ally Beardsley.
They are an amazing roleplayer you may know
from Dimension 20 as well as CollegeHumor.
They are fantastic and we're so happy to have them aboard,
so check that out next week at 7:00 p.m.
on our Twitch channel here on Critical Role.
Marisha, you have an announcement.
Speakin' of content, if you want more of
Sam aimlessly talking into microphones,
you need to watch All Work No Play, Liam is there too.
We need to take that math course.
Yeah, I do need to take that.
I'm an independent creator, not a corporate shill, so.
(laughing)
Sorry I don't have a polished language.
I produce art.
(laughing)
Like All Work No Play.
Oh!
So yes, the first episode is
available right now on YouTube.
It's Sam and Liam, they have chainsaws?
It's so good!
Shit, it's so funny.
I had the same reaction watching it
that I did with our first, our earliest podcast episodes,
where when we did it, I'm like, "This is not that good."
And then I watch it and I'm like,
"Hey, this is pretty good."
(laughing)
Well, Julie Nathanson really steals the show.
She kinda makes it.
Definitely carries it.
Her muscles, anyway.
Linda Hamilton arms.
Fucking arms, right?
Yeah.
Her in that purple tank top?
Oh my god.
I immediately
started doing push ups.
Oh my god.
While watching the episode.
Sarah Connor level--
Sarah Connor level, yeah.
And then pull ups.
Yeah.
Before I objectify my good friend Julie Nathanson,
yeah, you should catch it right now
and the next episode will air
Tuesday, February 18th at 4:00 p.m.
Ooh.
That's not
this upcoming Tuesday--
Not this Tuesday.
It's the next one.
Next Tuesday.
That's right.
Gotcha.
Cool.
Thanks, Marish.
Was that your Italian accent?
Couldn't you tell?
Oh hello.
(laughing)
Five years later, still fresh off the noggin.
What's goin' on over there?
I'm a little worried about Italy now.
It's like, everybody okay?
I don't know, what sounds so weird?
On next-a Tuesday.
(laughing)
(talking over each other)
All right, movin' on.
(laughing)
Laura, Laura, you've got some announcements, too.
Woo, I do.
Oh man.
First of all, we got new stuff in our stores,
the US shop and the UK shop.
Let's cut to this fabulous--
Cut to?
Oh.
Keychain.
Yeah, I think they've got it on
the table so that you can get a better shot.
Oh, look at that.
(oohing)
I don't know if it's on the, I don't know.
But yeah, it's this beautiful, and it spins.
Yeah, do the demonstration.
Okay, I'm gonna take it, I'm gonna pull it out.
Take it.
Cut to the other camera.
There you go.
I'm gonna take it.
Look, ooh.
Okay.
It spins.
Whoa.
Oh, this one isn't--
Spinners, y'all.
Hold on, I'm not doing it very well, there.
You're blocking it with your thumb.
Shut up!
Anyway, it spins and it's got this fabulous copper finish.
Anyway, I like it.
(laughing)
(clapping)
Good sale.
Wow.
There you go, there you go.
There it is.
There we are.
It's copper style.
It's copper sides up.
It's copper.
Do-do do do-do do doo!
(cheering)
Do doo!
This is, wait where's the logo, there it is,
this is called Bailey's Dice Bag of Hoarding.
(laughing)
It's the size of your head.
Dee dee.
It's bigger.
Yeah, so this was a bag that was inspired by
the bags made for several of us.
I don't know if she's made everyone a bag,
but only the ones that she really loves.
Chrissy Ahrens, I hope I'm saying your last name right.
She's on Twitter at @marajade33082 and she's wonderful.
So, she does custom bags and everything, so.
Other people do custom bags as well.
But ours--
Now we do custom bags.
Well, ours is not custom.
Well.
But it's beautiful and it's got
these fabulous lining, anyway.
Oh yeah, the lining is super cute.
With the Wendy doodles.
The Wendy doodles.
In the middle that you can hold it, too.
Yeah, and it's got a wonderful bag,
oh hold on, looka dis.
And it'll hold lots and lotsa dice.
I know 'cause I put everything from my dice bag in here
to make sure--
That looks super durable.
Can I use that for all my hardware needs at home?
Oh, that's right.
(laughing)
Fellas, you could keep nails in there.
It's got a super sturdy bottom, though,
so it won't lose its shape.
Screws and nails.
Anyway, I love it.
(laughing)
Check it out.
And also, for anybody that's going to C2E2,
people have been asking me if our merch is gonna be there
and we are not gonna be selling it personally,
but a lot of our stuff will be at the C2E2 merch booth,
so you can go there and get some--
At the C2E2 merch booth?
Did I say that right?
Yeah.
Is that right?
It's at the C2E2 merch booth.
Okay.
Actual convention merch.
Yeah.
You instill Laura--
No, I just didn't--
Insecurity on camera.
Yeah, it's pretty cool.
There's a merch booth there? Cool.
Yeah, they sell the con stuff,
but they are also gonna sell our stuff.
Have their big booth where you can go--
(talking over each other)
Shut up.
I don't know things.
I've got a layer--
I'm debating.
I don't know whether to keep it in my custom bag
or pour some in, maybe I'll just put the ones that are
in my other bag in this one.
You have plenty.
You can smaller dice bags--
Did you hear that?
To put--
Someone beside me,
speaking truth, slingin' it.
What'd you say, Marisha?
You don't have to fill it up.
Nothin', I didn't say anything, it was Travis.
Travis said everything.
(snorting)
It was Travis.
Hide quickly, the laser beams.
Matt, I think it's back to you, brother.
I think it might be.
Thank you, Laura.
Thank you, Matt.
And I believe that marks the end
of all of our announcements and as such,
let's go ahead and jump into
tonight's episode of Critical Role.
(growling)
(speaking over each other)
(water bubbling)
(booming)
(exploding)
♪ Roll roll that critical critical ♪
♪ The adventure begins ♪
♪ They were always beside you ♪
♪ Your nerdy best friends ♪
♪ And the DM to guide you ♪
♪ And they rise from the flames for the battles ahead ♪
♪ Villains beware 'cause you're 'bout to be dead! ♪
(upbeat dramatic music)
♪ They got magic and flair ♪
♪ They got falchions and cunning ♪
♪ They don't see over there ♪
♪ There's a monster incoming ♪
♪ Inspiration is waiting ♪
♪ Rise up, don't think twice ♪
♪ Put your fate in your hands ♪
♪ Take a chance, roll the dice, roll the dice ♪
♪ Roll critical, roll the dice ♪
♪ Can you answer the call? ♪
♪ Dig in deep in your soul ♪
♪ As the legend unfolds ♪
♪ Now it's your turn, your turn, your turn ♪
♪ To roll ♪
(flames whooshing)
You guys were so late on the draw that time.
(groaning)
(blowing raspberries)
Welcome back.
So, last we left off,
the Mighty Nein, in discovering that the curse
that still holds Nott in her goblinoid form
after her initial transformation years ago remained
and apparently was still held by the same magical woman
that had originally imposed this curse upon her.
You traveled your way through Kamordah,
had a tense experience meeting the Lionett family,
who also has attachments to this entity
you came to discover was named as Isharnai the Prism Sage,
who lived to the Northern forest marshlands
amongst the bases around Mount Mentiri.
You traversed this dangerous landscape,
dealing with various pockets of unleashed acidic moisture
and steam bursting forth from the geothermal ground itself.
You lost a few horses and let the others wander.
You made your way through swamps
and got lost, got exhausted,
dealt with fighting a few gorefeather harpies,
and then eventually found your way
to the base of Mount Mentiri, to the exterior
of the abode of Isharnai just as the sun set.
Upon looking around, you eventually discovered
this creature invisible on the roof
watching you all as you were
just investigating her homestead,
after which you had some conversations with her,
discovered that she could offer many things,
just like she has in the past,
in exchange for a touch of your own fortune.
Seemed to have thrive on misery
for those who asked for too much.
And, after some very emotional conversations
and thoughts about what some of you are willing to sacrifice
to trade for this curse that still remained on Nott,
Jester
bamboozled
her--
Bamboozled.
And me,
through a clutch combination of dust and deliciousness,
a random magical item I made up
and gave you back in episode 30
(laughing)
and used it to modify the memory of her,
to convince this crone-type creature
that she had such an amazing time
and you guys bonded so quickly and in this time,
she just was happy to release it for your companionship.
And you left, walked outside into the dark night
as you were all tired and wondering what happened,
to have Jester go, "Go, we have to go, now."
So, as you all were quickly ushered off
this somewhat moss-covered darkened hut,
the dull interior candlelit glow
that pours through the partially ajar doorway,
you all spearhead downward, back into the swampy valley
that awaits you as night has just begun.
And that is where we left off.
So, as Jester is quickly ushering you
down into the darkness, what do you do?
Quick, quickly.
Why are we--
Cast Find the Path.
Oh.
(laughing)
I don't have that prepared.
Okay, great.
Okay.
What's Find the Path?
It's a spell so I can find a path.
But I thought, you know, she'd be dead and we
wouldn't have to be hurrying or anything like that, so.
Caleb, Caleb, just teleport us away from here.
Oh, I, uh, oh.
What happened, though?
What happened?
Whatta you mean, "Oh"?
You are saying this as we're walking,
right, we're going through the brambles now.
Hang on now 'cause wait, though, what?
Wait though what?
Oh yeah.
What happened?
Don't we need
to do something--
Are we okay?
Kill her or anything?
What happened?
Everything's fine.
Did you give up something?
Something, yeah, like the real sprecial.
(snorting)
A real sprecial?
Yeah, it's a real sprecial.
What's a sprecial?
It's like--
Sprinkle's name.
It's an Indian dish.
Shpretzies are the best.
You made shpretzle outta Sprinkle?
No, Sprinkle's fine, look.
Oh.
What's a sprecial?
Kick ass.
(giggling)
(sighing)
He has no hair, Jester.
What?
I wanna just get some food out
and just feed Sprinkle as we talk.
(wheezing laughter)
He's eating, it's, he's fine.
(gagging)
It's like beef jerky, it's fine.
Peanut allergy.
So dry.
It won't go down.
(gagging)
This is a show about a weasel.
(laughing)
Wait, are we in danger?
Do we need to run?
We are moving at pace, aren't we?
Yeah, we are moving at pace.
You are.
I maybe, I just would, I'd rather not say this right now.
Like, you know, I gave away something
really special and shit's fine, it's fine.
We should just go because I don't want to, like--
(whispering)
Is Nott good, though?
Yeah, are we taken care of here, or--
Yeah, yeah, everything's fine.
Nott, your curse is broken.
Is my brother good?
Whatta you mean?
She said she, she, what did--
I don't know,
I had some questions.
You didn't make a deal,
did you?
No.
Then your brother's fine.
Well.
Right?
What, whatta you mean?
What d'you mean your brother?
No, just keep goin'.
Okay, so we need to go.
It's fine, Nott is good.
Go, get walking.
And Caleb, you said oh earlier to the teleport request?
No, I did not, I do not have that ready.
Wait, oh.
Okay, oh.
Who can, can you,
do you have Find a Path,
can you find us a path?
No, I can definitely--
I thought you found the path before.
I did but, you know, I kinda prepare some spells at
the beginning of the day and I didn't prepare that one.
Keep an eye on things behind us.
Yeah, so I'm gonna look behind us.
Because I thought we would be fighting and so, I made,
I prepared, like, a heal spell instead.
'Cause, you know, I heal.
22.
We have a certain way of doing things.
Normally we raze things to the ground,
so I did not think that we would need to escape in a hurry.
Yup, no, that's true.
So.
Yup.
I came prepared
to fuck shit up, but I cannot get us out.
Yeah.
Yeah, you know,
act as if, basically, we just walk like,
you know, you traded something that she loved--
I did.
And Nott's fine
and we're gonna make our way out of here like we did before.
Yeah, we're walking away confidently and happily
and knowing that--
The deal is closed.
Why do we need to rush, though?
Well, uh--
(hooting)
You hear the nocturnal creatures are starting to come out.
The night has definitely claimed the dense forest
as you guys feel the ground beneath you at this point
beginning to turn a little softer,
then the moisture of the swamp approaching.
You do not see anything immediately behind you
beyond just the occasional dark shadow
of some sort of nocturnal flight bird or predator
finding its way out for an early evening bite.
I just, the thing that I gave her, you know,
I've never actually given before or used, so--
What did you give her?
I gave her--
Did you kiss her?
Yeah, I gave her a real big smooch
and she loved it, she was like, "Oh my god."
We don't believe you, Jester.
Will you tell us what you gave her, please?
I hadn't even gotten to that.
I gave her a cupcake.
My last one, I gave her my last--
What did you really give her?
I gave her a cupcake.
And that, then that--
That was enough?
Was enough.
Yup, yeah.
How could a cupcake
possibly be enough?
I don't feel any different.
You're telling me that--
Nott was prepared to give war.
The curse has been lifted on me.
Nott--
Do I look different?
I was in the room and the whole room went dark
and she waved her hand and she said the curse was broken.
The whole room went really, like,
magically dark, you know what I mean?
And I believed her.
You believe her?
Yeah.
Well, thank you.
Well, I suppose if it's not true,
we could always double back?
What?
That's fair.
Why don't we just make the hut or something--
Oh, finish the job?
Yeah.
It doesn't seem like a deal
would be concluded with a cupcake.
Maybe we should take care of this ourselves.
Well, let's, let's--
You don't trust me?
I trust you.
No, I trust you,
I just don't believe--
You just don't believe me?
You don't believe me that I would know the difference
if a curse was broken and a deal was made?
How would she break a curse that's been
hanging over Nott for years over a cupcake?
What flavor was the cupcake?
It was blueberry.
I mean, I'll do a lot for a blueberry
cupcake.
Okay.
It's been a minute since you've gotten any new cupcakes.
How old was that cupcake?
It was pretty old.
(laughing)
What are we missing?
The frosting was, like, real stale.
I tasted it.
To be fair,
she probably eats, like, you know, earthworms and--
Exactly.
Fungus and stuff, so--
This is all very confusing.
Plus it had
some of that stuff that Pumat gave us.
We need to get somewhere safe so we can talk this out.
Wait, what was that last part?
Um, you know that stuff?
No.
The dust that we, that remember, we talked about and makes
food taste really good.
Oh.
Oh that, oh that.
Yeah.
Oh that, oh.
Mmhm.
Oh.
What about it?
So, it made it taste good.
We have--
Pretty damn good.
Can I look behind us?
Is anything following us?
Make a perception check.
I'll join you, I'm just gonna keep doing this.
I don't care, I'm gonna look any way I can.
27.
Ooh,
you saw way more than me.
17.
For the time being, no.
You don't notice anything behind you.
The air is cold and the mist is rising in the swamp
as you guys begin to now hit
the elements of the mud and water
that you're now ankle deep and you can hear the--
(squelching)
You guys, this is probably dangerous
to traverse in the night.
Should we go in the hut
and just sort of camouflage ourselves?
Well, it's soggy.
Maybe.
I don't really know if there's--
Well, why don't we find solid ground first?
Let's find somewhere to put the hut,
maybe off the beaten track
Whatta you need to do the ritual for Nott?
Oh, uh, oh boy.
It has been a week, you guys.
Do you have stuff?
Do we need to start collecting clay?
Uh, yeah.
Wait, not that ritual.
No, no, no, no.
She is
talking about Nott's ritual, but--
No, let's, that takes, like, an hour.
We do that at home, I think.
Yeah.
Right?
Let's make the hut.
Not while we're running, no.
What if it's not broken?
Well, we can come back.
It's broken.
How,though?
I'll tell you if we get the hut up, okay?
I'll talk to you guys in the hut, Beau.
Well, let's a bit of dry ground if we're able to.
Sure, yeah, okay.
10 to 15 feet.
For solid ground?
Make a survival check.
Survival.
You're a survivor
Just me?
Did anybody gimme guidance?
Any advantage 'cause people are also, ooh.
20,
what is that, 23 plus a D4.
Damn, Jester.
26.
26, okay.
That was one hell of a roll.
All right, you go ahead and it takes you about an hour
'cause you either have to get really far off the beaten path
or you have to push forward and you're like,
going forward, there's a chance you might find,
it's easier to find things that break the surface when
it's not as shallow, but also, you're off the beaten path
and you know where you've traveled and the safest
or at least the most immediate distance
between where you are and where you're going.
Okay.
It takes about an hour
before you find a patch of land that is
mostly above water and can probably fit the dome in it.
There is one issue is a quarter of it would be
filled with part of a fallen rotted trunk of a tree,
which means you'll have to be
pretty tight in there when you sleep, but it's doable.
We'll squish in.
So like,
the dome would be around the tree trunk?
Yes.
That's fine.
Unless one of you wanna sleep
in the water.
Nope.
Hollowed out tree trunk or solid?
Is it a fun straw into our home?
No, 'cause the dome would go through the hut,
right, go through the trunk anyway.
The trunk would be inside the dome
as far as getting enough ground that itself is open
and not under water and under the actual
marsh water, but it is not hollow
and it is rotted.
You go to inspect it and you pull it
and the hard, the jagged parts are just
(imitates breaking noises) peel off softly.
Can we just move the trunk?
It's rooted in the ground.
You can try and move it up if you
wanna try and tear the trunk out.
Just sleep around it.
It'll be uncomfortable but safe.
Okay.
How long does it take
for you to cast it as a ritual?
11 minutes as a ritual.
11 minutes as a ritual?
Should we try and push the trunk for 11 minutes?
Yeah, for 11 minutes, we'll try to move it.
Okay, go ahead and make a, who's helming this?
I help the girls.
Oh, the girls are doin' it?
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You two are strength-based.
Yeah, so both you guys make strength checks, right.
Okay.
And I am
there for emotional support.
I'm watching,
I'm watching for anything--
Natural 20.
Oh shit.
Whoa!
And I got a 27.
Whoo!
Wow.
Damn.
20 on perception, too, just keeping an eye on--
Fair enough.
She's the splinter maker.
As Jester and Yasha
reach, both kind of getting their fingers into the ground,
and it's easy to get a grip because the soft earth
gives away to your fingers as you push
and find a heavy handhold on these deeply sunken roots.
You both count to three and then lift (grunts)
at once and you hear (makes breaking noises)
as it tears up outta the ground.
You can see some of the roots just splinter and break
and some just pull up right outta the soft earth
as you both lift and give it a shove and it
(imitated splashing and thumping noises)
and it kind of like--
Damn.
Floats out over the water and kinda sinks halfway
before it finds enough soot and muck underneath
to come to rest.
She's a brick--
(laughing)
[Travis & Marisha] House.
The mist has kind of come in quickly in this space,
which, by the way, if you could, Caduceus,
role again 'cause it would be, the disadvantage
would be heavy mist around you.
Oh, that's fine.
And aphids just go fff.
That's even higher, so 20 is still the--
Okay.
20 is still the roll.
So, the splash hits, you're about maybe,
that took no time, you guys took maybe
two minutes to get that thing outta the way.
So, you're still partially into this.
Right as you guys are kind of, you know,
getting excited about that, you see something,
a shape in the mist.
What does it look like?
What does the shape look like?
Looks like a--
There.
Kinda like just like a person.
Is it a ghost?
Person,
it looks like a person.
A person?
It looks kinda just like a person?
Then there's three more.
(gasping)
Oh, it's a ghost.
Floating?
How far away?
They're just
shapes in the mist that you can barely make out.
And you guys can't even see,
you're the one who's pointing originally.
Jester, you can just make it out a little bit.
Cast faster, cast faster, cast faster.
(squawking)
(laughing)
Six minutes, five minutes, I don't know.
You see a shape kinda come out of the water--
Oh!
Not too far
from where you are, on the edge of where
the trunk of the tree had hit the edge,
you see a shape, a person kinda rise up out of it.
I get their attention.
Move closer and start preppin'.
Caduceus, tell us what these are.
Quickly check, I'm checking,
I'm doing the, is it, are they undead?
I'm doing the--
You're doing which one?
The Eyes of the Grave.
Eyes of the Grave.
What's the range on that?
Range on that is 60 feet.
I know the location of any undead within 60 feet that isn't
behind total cover.
Okay, cool.
You got about 15 that suddenly
show up--
And it's undead?
Immediately around you as undead.
I'm gonna Turn Undead, you gonna do the same thing?
You first or do you wanna--
Well first, let's go ahead and roll initiative.
(cheering)
(clapping)
Oh, it's so low.
Fight, fight, fight.
Not gonna leave us high and dry.
No, we caught a bite.
My body's happy.
Last week was just a sample fight, it barely counted.
You guys have to charge, you charge right into
the depths of the swamp right as the night kicks in
and make loud noises?
Yeah, we just--
Dwarven Forge,
dwarvenforge.com--
We just decided to--
Dwarven Forge, Dwarven Forge.
Yeah, what are we gonna do?
What're we gonna do camp outside of our hut?
Yeah, we can.
It must be done.
Here comes the mist.
Not a good initiative, not good at all.
Oh no.
Oh no,
initiative, I knew I forgot something.
Roll well, roll really well.
Balls.
Okay, now it's gonna--
(talking over each other)
Those aren't balls, they're anus.
Balls, balls, and anus.
Love that song.
(laughing)
Parents, if you're watching with your kids, we apologize.
Nothing wrong with balls and anus.
Those are medical terms.
Medical terms, exactly.
So, you got--
Inbetweenus, Mr. Grinch.
As far as you know.
By the way, our new book
is gonna be in stores soon: Everyone Has An Anus.
(laughing)
I mean, it's true.
With little decals
and vinyl stickers.
Oh god.
Me and Yasha would be standing next to
each other 'cause we just did the trunk.
Oh yay--
You guys're gonna be--
'Bout time.
All right, and so--
It's, that's so cool, though, come on.
That's so cool.
Look at these trees.
Oh wow, wow.
Look at the log
and the fuckin' moss, all right, I'm gonna chill.
(laughing)
Not that this is not being recorded, but
this is really cool.
For your own--
I gotta make sure somebody sees this.
(laughing)
Matt's like, "Yeah, you fucks.
"You shoulda seen my map last week."
(laughing)
Yup.
Not that long ago.
Oh god.
Yup.
Oh my god, he's got a lotta minis.
There's 15 of them.
Yeah, there's a lotta minis.
Maybe they all have--
Caduceus.
Three hit points.
Meet me in the garden.
[Liam, Ashley & Laura] HoeGaarden.
(grunting)
(laughing)
Big deep throwback.
Maybe some glowy, glowy fisties?
Glowy fisties?
To say that out loud.
Yeah, I got it.
Did you just say glowy fisty?
Glowy fisties, Caddy.
Glowy fisties.
I may not have it.
Oh wait.
If you do--
If you have it.
Glowy fisty night at Booty LA.
If you do that--
I may not have it.
We won't be able to do--
Yeah, I may not actually have glowy fisty right now.
(gentle music)
And then--
Wow,
Matt is setting up a lot of miniatures.
I actually don't, I don't have glowy fisty right now,
so.
Oh god.
(sighing)
All right.
Oh.
Oh, and lighting change?
Come on.
Please.
As you make that point, and you guys
begin see these shapes move and shift,
you see the one that comes outta the water nearby,
right over on that side near Jester and Yasha,
the trunk that has kinda floated out in that direction,
you see it kinda rise up and go--
That's a scary one.
And you see
they're humanoid, though largely their flesh is
kinda bloated and sloughing off their body in places,
swollen and green, kind of just this
horrible toxic zombie-type persona
and it looks like it will move really slow.
And it goes, fssh!
No!
(groaning)
Oh, stop.
Rushes with a speed
faster than any sort of zombie you've seen in your time.
I hate fast zombies.
So, initiative please.
If everyone hasn't rolled yet.
I rolled shit.
I did, too.
Rolled average.
He's rolling really well.
Natural 20.
Oh!
That's the opposite of what I rolled.
All right, so 25 to 20?
20.
Oh shit!
Yasha is going with them.
Yasha!
Ashley Johnson.
I'm doin' slo-mo on the smoke.
(laughing)
Alrighty.
20 to 15?
16.
18.
Oh, shit.
Gotta write this stuff down.
All right.
Nott.
Nott, you said 16, oh, Caduceus got 16?
Then Beau, all right.
15 and 10?
12.
Ten to five?
Eight.
Is this all the same day?
Yeah.
Oh, I guess it won't affect us too much,
but we're all exhausted, so--
Yes, you all have a point,
well, most of you have a point of exhaustion.
I rolled a one.
All right, Fjord's up front.
Okay.
I basically
didn't even notice anything. (laughs)
So--
What're you guys
gettin' all excited for?
Yasha,
what's your dexterity?
My dexterity is 15.
I'll let you go first, then.
Oh.
Okay.
Um, okay, so,
who's nearest?
Who's nearest?
You have these two, they're almost equidistant.
This one is probably closest to you there.
Okay, I'm gonna go over there.
I would like to rage.
Yes, you would.
Alrighty, drawing which blade?
Your witch blade.
My
Skin Gorger.
You got it.
Shh, you charge through, sploosh, sploosh.
Now, in this space, your movement is--
Halved.
Halved because you are in
pretty heavy swamp around the space of where you guys
are currently located.
Okay.
But you get there without an issue.
So, you rush into the first one
and it's there in front of you.
Now, as opposed to just an undead
and a zombie that's falling apart,
and you've encountered a number of those in spaces,
this reminds you of some of the zombies
that you've seen in elements of Xhorhas
that are usually curse-based husk zombies
or they're created by nergaliids,
similar in ways to the ones that
showed up at the carnival when you first--
Oh.
Met up with these people.
They are faster, their fingers are bladed,
(gasping)
and they're, all around, a little more
volatile than your standard lumbering undead.
But nevertheless, in that moment
of recognition, your blade is out.
What are you doing?
Okay.
I'm going to attack.
All right.
Go for the head.
Yeah.
That would be a 28 to hit.
That'll hit.
Okay.
'Cause it's so rusted.
That's what you have to be careful about,
it's not the blade.
That shot is a bitch, too.
It hurts, it's like two days, you gotta rub it.
I'm gonna roll those again because of,
yeah, I'm gonna take that hit.
12, 13, 23 for the first hit.
23 points of damage?
Yup.
Nice.
You hack through, sshunk, carving through,
and you see its body kinda open up a bit.
As it does, as opposed to the black coagulated blood,
almost like moss kinda pours out
with the wound as it opens up.
The arm itself splinters a bit but holds in place
and then kinda like (groans).
Oh, that's gross.
Okay, second hit.
Oh, same, 28.
That'll do.
Roll damage a second time.
Okay.
(dice clattering)
Gonna roll again.
Okay, same.
(gentle music)
(panting)
12 points of damage.
12 points of damage, nice.
Second strike, kshh, carves through
and jams partway in its torso, shhk, and gets stuck
and the creature kind of (gasps) bows for a second
like it's about to collapse and then kinda
(gasps) back up at you with the blade
still kind of stuck in its torso.
As you pull back, it lurches forward towards you.
Now, they're all gonna go.
Oh.
Pay up, Matt.
Before you go forward, can we add my resident echo
to the map?
Oh, good call,
'cause you do still have him.
How long does he last?
Eight hours.
Tight.
Where would you like him to go?
I would've had him be a lookout, so I don't think he would
be right with us.
Ooh.
Maybe there?
Oh, there he is.
It's the nega-Caleb.
Yep.
Could I put him standing under this tree?
Sure.
'Cause he doesn't have to
worry about swampies.
You got it.
Okay, cool.
So, now it's their turn.
(whooshing)
(squeaking)
Oh god, they're so fast.
They are very fast.
Even with their reduced movement,
they are much quicker than any zombie you've encountered,
although, no, you've encountered these once a long time ago.
A long time ago.
These are--
It's like when they remove frames
in a horror film and they just--
Oh god.
You know?
Yeah.
(hissing)
Go for the net--
Oh, I hate that shit.
(laughing)
That's like, I have nightmares like that.
For clarification?
Yes?
I rolled savage attack on both of those,
Savage Attacker, but the second,
that second one that I rolled, I rolled the same--
Gotcha, okay.
Both times.
So, I just realized, I was like,
"I think I can only use that once per turn."
Sorry.
That's all good.
But thank you for being honest.
Just so later, people
aren't like, "You did it wrong."
(laughing)
(talking over each other)
I know I did.
I know,
I'm letting you know I know.
Yeah, I'm letting you know I know.
I realized.
It's a side roll.
It's a Fred Savage attack, it's not the same thing.
Fred Savage attack.
Yup, yup.
That's a lot--
So, the one that you've jammed the blade in
and it's nearly dead, it goes, (gasps) looks at you
and you watch as its chest kinda pulses and inflates,
bssh, it bursts into a spray of toxic,
visceral liquid--
Fuck.
Ugh.
Go ahead
and make a constitution saving throw--
Oh my god.
Sheesh.
Constitution?
Yeah,
constitution saving throw, please.
(groaning)
Seven, I mean ten.
Ten,
that is still a failure, you
(dice clattering)
take 18 points of poison damage.
Oh!
One eight?
Yes.
Ooh.
As it explodes, it is destroyed but you are
coated in this horrible poisonous liquid
that kinda like scars the flesh a bit
and it's all in your eyes and your mouth
and it burns and it's awful.
Ugh.
Doesn't happen to hurt the gentleman next to him, does it?
He doesn't seem affected by it.
He's gonna attack you twice.
Oh my god.
Oh, shit.
No, don't--
Two 18s, literally, in a row.
That, it's--
Two 18s.
Yeah, so that'll be a 23 each.
All right, you take--
(dice clattering)
Turn Undead might be bad, then.
17 points of bludgeoning damage,
which, you are raging, so that is halved to eight,
I believe, eight points of bludgeoning damage to you.
'Kay.
Yeah.
All right, that's two attacks on you,
Jester.
Me?
That's four attacks on you from two of them.
Little old me?
Yep!
There are two of them that are
currently rushed in towards you.
Do not freak them.
Okay.
All right, natural one misses, that's cocked.
They rolled really bad.
The highest one is a 15.
Oh.
What's your armor class?
18.
They just rush in and strike close with
their fingers are clawing and you're holding up your shield
and you're kind of like one gets close to you
and you bash it away and it backs up again
(growling)
about to level back and go in for the assault a second time.
Caduceus, you have one that rushed up to you
and it's gonna attack you twice.
(dice clattering)
Oh, twice in a row.
13 and a 13s.
No, and I'm gonna use
Shield of Retribution.
Okay, go for it.
So, misses with a melee attack.
I can just block them with Arcane Force.
They suffer four D6 force damage
and they also have to move 20 feet away from me.
Ooh, tight.
So--
Shield of Retribusch.
Whoa.
Those dice are beautiful.
15, 16, 17, 18, 19.
19 points.
19 points
of force damage and 20 feet back.
So, it runs towards you, leaps in the air,
and as it goes to strike with both claws,
you hold the shield up, take the blow,
and, bssh, shove it off as a blast of energy, pssh.
Fires it, throwing it back 20 feet.
It (makes crashing noises) lands and then,
(makes squelching noise) jumps up with an unexpected speed
and is getting ready to come back next round.
Whoa.
That's really--
These two are gonna go after your echo, Caleb.
Uh huh, uh huh.
It's four strikes
against it, the first two--
He's a tank, he'll be fine.
(laughing)
13 and a 14?
No.
Wow.
No!
(laughing)
They don't hit!
Hey!
But it doesn't have mage armor on it.
I don't have mage armor on.
Okay.
I have Elven chain and--
That's true.
Yeah, there you go, so both those miss.
First time for everything.
(laughing)
Whoosh, whoosh, really?
And two more strikes against you.
Just a mime going.
(laughing)
That's 21 and 21.
Oh yeah, those hit.
(laughing)
He's gone.
Are those against your shadow or--
He's a confetti filled balloon, guys, pff.
(laughing)
He took 'em all.
13 points
of bludgeoning damage.
Oh.
No, he's still up.
That's from both of them?
Yeah, one of them missed two attacks,
the other one hit twice but didn't roll super high
in the damage.
Oh.
Are you low on health already?
No.
No, it's his echo.
It's his shadow.
Oh!
Yeah, it's, I've never used this spell, sorry.
It's all good.
That's gonna be four attacks--
It's still up!
Yeah, shit.
There you go.
(laughing)
(clapping)
Congratulations!
Take it, man.
That's four strikes against you, Fjord.
Yup.
Oh, shit.
Ooh.
That's a good sound.
That's what you wanna hear.
Yeah.
A seven, an eleven,
a 17, and a 19.
17 and 19 hits, the last two don't.
Okay.
So, that is 14 points of bludgeoning damage
to you.
Okay.
As both of them go just raking towards you,
bashing into you, trying desperately to get through,
and then the other tries coming through
and they slash into your torso and the side of your head
and you kinda like (grunts) go forward.
You can feel kinda the warmth as the blood
is kinda pouring through the scalp already
from where it slashed to the back of your head.
That is going to finish that one there.
There is now one against you, Caleb, with two strikes.
The 14 points of damage were
the last two strikes combined?
Yes.
Okay, gotcha.
I didn't make sure we're not actually--
So, that's two strikes against you, Caleb,
from the one that managed to squeeze through to get to you.
Ooh.
That is a 23 and a natural 20.
Those both seem to hit for some reason.
Cancel the natural 20.
Oh.
Yes.
Did you use your reaction in your shield?
Yeah, I think you did--
Oh, I don't know if that,
I don't know if the shield counts as a reaction, hold on.
Sam, to be--
Yeah, he'll Jose it.
(tongue clicking)
Yeah, it's my reaction, fuck, sorry.
(groaning)
Bring it on.
All right.
That is a
(muffled speaking)
seven points of slashing damage to you, Caleb.
Yeah, okay.
Then the crit.
I don't think I did, it wasn't marked.
10, 13 points of slashing damage on that one.
(whining)
(laughing)
That's not bad.
Not too bad.
Two attacks against you,
Beauregard.
Yeah.
This is the last of their run.
There's gonna be a 13--
Miss.
And a 20.
20 hits.
20 hits, you take seven points of
slashing damage.
Okay, that's fine.
That is the rest of their turn.
Next up comes Nott.
Nott, what're you doin'?
That was a lot of attacks.
Yeah.
That was a--
You go from just a couple of shadows in the mist
to suddenly being swarmed by this horrible (groaning)
Instant--
Sound of sucking,
terrible undead voices and you're just swarmed.
You hear an explosion and a scream off to the side,
your friends are being assailed by them, what're you doing?
I feel like--
Can I just,
there's one over here that we didn't move.
Oh, there is one over there.
Oh, thank you, thank you for that.
Kill, kill, kill.
That's not an undead,
that's just a pervert.
(laughing)
Hey, how you all doin' over,
oh.
The Gentleman?
What are you doin' here?
And actually,
these guys couldn't attack but they can still at least
get up in the mix.
Yeah.
Which they would anyway with
their dash action, so there we go.
Jeepers.
Oh no--
Actually, this one would probably
get behind Ashley there, so we'll go with that.
Jinkies.
Mmkay.
So, what're you doin', Nott?
She's right next to me, huh?
I'm sorry, I fucked that up for you.
No, that's fine, it's fine.
I feel like Yasha's okay, I feel like
Jester's gonna do some magic shit,
Fjord I don't really care about, Beau, Beau's fine.
I'll be fine.
I gotta protect Caleb.
I will shoot the one engaged with Caleb.
Right here?
Yes.
Go for it.
Okay.
Roll for an attack.
(dice clattering)
Four (laughs) plus 10, so 14.
That hits.
Hey!
They are very easy to hit.
They don't try and dodge, they don't have any armor.
Whoa, that was a good roll.
Yes it was.
20,
32 plus 6,
38, 38 points of damage.
Yeah.
38 points of damage.
(chuckles) It is done.
Oof,
does it explode or is it okay?
As you strike it, sshfck,
in the back of its head, it kinda (makes squishy noises)
falls forward onto its knees
and then its body (makes squelching noises)--
Oh no.
(groaning)
Bursts.
I need Beauregard, Caleb, and Fjord
to all make constitution saving throws, please.
(grumbling)
(dice clattering)
No, it's gonna happen.
This is how we do it.
Okay.
24.
24, success, you take 12 points of poison damage.
Oof.
20.
12 points of poison damage.
Caleb?
(mumbling)
I got some distance.
I'm, does my--
18.
18,
12 points of poison damage.
Does my immunity
to poison change anything?
Huh?
My immunity
to poison change anything or--
Immune to the condition or is it, this is your--
Monk shit.
I think, I think--
My monk shit.
I'll double check,
but I'm pretty sure maybe it's gonna do nothin' to ya.
I'm just gonna double check real fast here with your--
Monks have a lotta shit.
Yeah.
Yeah,
monks are pretty great.
They're awesome.
Immune to disease and poison.
Yeah, nothin'.
It hits you and you just
kinda, spshh, (clicks tongue).
Glisten.
Nothin'.
Your friends are dying.
Ooh, look at my guns.
They look good now.
(laughing)
Huh, interesting.
You are as thin as Gandhi.
Fuck you.
And then I will,
that one's within melee of me, so I will disengage--
Alrighty.
And, oh boy,
there's nowhere to run, we're surrounded,
but I'll, I'll, I'll just run away.
Okay, your movement is 35?
Yeah.
Yeah, I'll run back that way, yeah.
20, 25, 30, that's about as far as you can get.
That seems good.
Actually no,
you were on the kind of point there,
so you can actually get a little further if you want to,
over this way, just because you were on the--
Yeah, it's all good.
You were on the section that didn't have any swamp
and then you moved into the swamp.
There's a guy over there, I didn't see him.
Well you do now.
Oh, shit!
(laughing)
Okay, that's it.
All right.
Caduceus, you're up, Beau, you're on deck.
I'm gonna cast Bless at fourth level.
Ooh!
On everyone but Beau.
Damn, boy.
(laughing)
Everyone gets an extra D4 to attacks and saves.
Is that everyone's--
D4.
Confidence.
Has, yeah,
that much confidence in me.
So yeah, if you have to roll a save
or if you roll an attack, you can add a D4 to it.
Hashtag blessed.
Spell.
On me as well, or--
Yep.
Oh okay, cool.
Everyone's got a D--
Wait on me as well?
On you as well.
On little ol' me?
Even, yeah, everybody.
Alrighty, that's your action.
That's my action, I'm like, this is
where I am right now, oh boy.
Am I not engaged with any of them?
You were and then you blasted them back with your shield,
so you are not currently engaged with anything in combat.
Okay, I'm going to break off from the group a bit.
Okay.
'Cause I have just
figured out that this as a grouping is a disaster.
(laughing)
And I'm going to try and get to the other side
of this trunk over here, if that's okay.
5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, that's as far as you--
On the other side of it, if possible.
How long does Blessed last?
Until I lose concentration.
I'd say because you were in there,
I'll give you another block,
but that's as far as you can get.
I was--
Oh, the other side?
Oh, there's no way to get through there, yeah.
That's also rough terrain 'cause it's
a bunch of bunching, so I can
meet you about there.
I'm getting in there--
And you are partially hidden by a bush.
There you go, you're good, you're good.
There we go.
Or there, too.
That works fine, sure, wherever you wanna go, Caduceus.
That's right, I'm trying to be our back up against that.
All right.
There we go,
if that's real stuff.
There you go.
Oh boy.
Yeah, that's, I don't think I have
a bonus action so yeah, that's--
Beauregard, you're up.
All right.
Caleb, you're on deck.
I have zombie Jesus here.
Zombie Jesus?
(chuckles) Sure.
And then that guy?
Yes.
I'm going to elbow the guy behind me
and then give a nice roundhouse to the guy up front,
I don't know.
Go for it.
So, one attack to each?
One to each.
You got it.
(dice clattering)
Wow, wow, that's real bad.
Bad rolls.
Real bad.
13 and a 15.
Both hit.
Wow!
Anyone can hit these guys.
Yeah.
What'd you roll?
Awesome!
I rolled a three and a five and I still hit both of them.
Wow.
What was the total?
Pop pop, 13 and 15.
Okay, okay.
They might be a little bit--
So, that's gonna be eight to the guy
in the back--
Alrighty.
10 to the guy in the front.
Bum bum ba dip a dup ah.
(dramatic music)
Still standin'?
What was the second damage?
It was--
Ten, eight and ten.
Yeah, those still standin', no issue.
They both take hits, da-gsh, and they're like (growls).
It doesn't seem to be that much of an impact on them.
Oh, no I've got a bunch of--
(sneezing)
Pardon me.
Bless you.
Gesundheit.
(sneezing)
Bless you.
(singing)
(sneezing)
(cheering)
A triple sneezer?
They're usually triple sneezers.
So it might--
Ah.
Gotta triple sneeze.
What doesn't seem to, okay.
(laughing)
Okay.
Lucky.
(laughing)
Why don't you brag about it?
Flurry of Blows.
Flurry of Blows?
All right.
Same thing, one each.
Pop pop, you got it.
Both hit with a 15 and a 17.
Yup.
Oh, those are better.
18 to the guy in the back.
Nice.
And, nope, sorry, sorry, let me rethink that.
14 to the guy in the back.
That's eight plus six, right?
Correct.
Yes?
And then--
To zombie Jesus?
To zombie Jesus and then
12 to the guy in the front.
Alrighty.
Crack crack, you hit them both again.
They both kinda (grunts) bow back
and they're looking hurt but they're
still standing angrily, growling, on each side of you.
You do, however, get your Extract Aspects on them.
They are, surprisingly, immune to poison and being poisoned.
Makes sense.
That's not surprising.
I know.
"They're immune to
"the shit that they throw on us.
"They're immune to poison," I say to everybody.
Tell me what to do, Sam.
All right, that's my turn.
You got it, Beau. Caleb, you're up.
Jester, you're on deck.
So the nega-Widogast
pulls his hands apart and a giant fireball
opens up in his hands and he chucks it
over to here.
Alrighty.
(chuckling)
Over in this direction so that we can hopefully
catch himself and these two buddies and this one here.
Yeah, you can get all three of those.
And himself.
And himself!
He will disappear.
It's a fireball?
Yeah.
Go ahead
and roll damage on that.
Now, where's that thing, where did it go?
There it is.
Okay, that's a fail.
I am gonna,
hell, it's all gonna fail, oh listening.
Took here, took a roll.
That, I gotta re-roll it 'cause it was,
these dice, I can't do it.
(giggling)
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight.
Here we go.
(dice clattering)
11, 13,
17, 21,
27,
33,
34.
Plus the plus the plus the plus the--
Just shift your position.
Plus the,
(laughing)
34.
34 points of damage?
Yeah, high rolls.
That's actually really good.
The two, so yeah.
Caleb, the echo Caleb releases it
and just, hshh, scatters into shadow and is gone
as the flaming blast lights up the space around you
in the middle of this dark kind of
barely moonlit center of the swamp.
As the zombies themselves take the flame
and kinda scramble for a minute,
kind of caught off guard by the blast,
they all get back to their place.
This one here looks hurt,
the other two are almost destroyed.
Whatever flesh that was soggy and green
is now black and crispy, they've lost most of
their facial features and they're just like
(gasps) but they're still standing.
And also, Caleb turns into a giant ape.
Oh, okay, that works, too.
Ooh.
Oh, okay.
(chuckling)
Turn into what, a giant ape?
Yeah.
Woo!
We're monkeyin' around.
All right.
So with that, you are now a blessed monkey.
Hashtag blessed.
Yes.
And you get kind of shunted out to this space
since you cannot occupy the space
the rest of your group is there.
And you're a giant monkey, that's your action.
Alrighty.
Is that your turn, are you gonna stay there?
(grunting)
(chuckles) You got it.
Jester, you're up.
Fjord, you're on deck.
Okay.
I am going to--
This is it.
I know.
I'm going to reach into my bag
and pull out the diamond that Caleb gave me
that I used to incite greed and I'm gonna hold it
high in the air and I'm gonna cast Incite Greed.
Okay.
Incite Greed.
Any creature that I choose within 30 feet of me,
which should be all of them except for that skeleton
and this guy over here, has to make a
wisdom saving throw.
Correct.
So, those two on the outside are exempt.
That guy there.
(dice clattering)
Failure.
Dude next to Fjord.
16.
Fail.
17.
Ah, 17 he needs, 17.
So, this guy does succeed.
Okay.
There's nothing.
He's fine on that.
I got him.
The one next to Beau.
(dice clattering)
Fail.
The two next to Yasha, fail.
(dice clattering)
Fail, no, he succeeds.
He rolled an 18.
Okay.
They have a penalty, though,
but they're still rolling pretty high.
So, this guy, this guy, and those two are unaffected.
The two that are next to you, Jester.
(dice clattering)
Fail and fail.
What?
What happens?
They have to use their entire turn
to do nothing but move towards me.
If they are within five feet of me,
it can't do anything but stare greedily
at the gem that I'm holding up.
Whoa.
They all want this gem
very badly.
And it's concentration?
It is.
Alrighty.
And at the end of their turn, they get to make
a wisdom save again.
You got it.
Okay, good to know, Jester.
Wow.
Thank you.
Fjord, you're up.
That's, that's amazing.
If you guys hurt them, it ends the charm effect,
it's like a charm, so only attack
the ones that aren't charmed right now.
Got it.
Wow.
Can I use my bonus action to put my Hex Blades curse
on this individual over here that has
the very large hat?
You got it.
And I will take two swings with
the Star Razor at that unaffected--
Right here?
Gentleman, yes.
Go for it. (claps)
Is that one--
Two strikes at that one?
Yes.
Alrighty.
And I'll use that, the word to make it glow.
(dice clattering)
So, vvv, the runes light up, the blade gives off
this bright radiant kind of a light
that just emanates from the edge and you swing, wsh--
27.
That hits.
Second one is--
Woo, c'mon Fjordy.
Wow.
28 to hit.
Both hit.
Go and roll damage on that one.
Good, I didn't even roll the fuckin' plus, whatever.
(laughing)
10, wait a minute.
(dice clattering)
11 points of damage and 19.
So, 29 points of slashing damage.
29 to the one that was unwounded
right there.
Yes, unaffected.
(makes slashing noises) Both strikes carve through.
Where the blade carves into its flesh, it opens up
and you can see the radiant energy sears through.
There's no roughness to it, it just almost
burns straight through like it was
just an incise laser had carved.
Nice.
It's still standing,
though really, really badly hurt and barely holding on.
That's your action and your bonus.
And my bonus was the Hex Blades, yes.
So, you gonna move or stay put?
Yes, I stay put.
All right.
Top of the round.
Yasha, you're up next.
Okay.
You are currently surrounded, though both, one of them,
who's behind you, went from (growls) to (gasps)
and just staring over towards Jester
while the one that's immediately in front of you
is still thrashing towards you.
Okay, since he's distracted,
I'm gonna go for the one in front of me.
Oh zombies, I have a very pretty gem!
17.
17 hits.
Okay.
Butterflies.
(dice clattering)
First hit, I'll take that.
5, 11,
21.
21 points of damage?
21 points of damage.
Ooh, nice.
Oh look, a deer.
Second strike.
Second hit.
(sighs) It's gonna explode on me.
Zombie deer.
A zombie deer.
The deer's like (growls).
12.
Also hits.
It does?
What, 12 still hits?
Yes!
All right.
They don't have
a great armor class.
These guys suck.
Okay.
Shut up.
I'm gonna try rolling this again since I didn't
on the last one.
Go for it.
That's same, okay, so five,
12 points of damage.
All right, you attack twice, as it (makes slicing noise)
and then (grunts) carve upward
and you watch it actually carve through the face
and the head splits a bit
but one of the eyes kinda looks back to you
and it's kinda shambling towards you,
almost like, the second future reference,
like a T-1000 kinda split open coming in your direction.
(clapping)
Oh, yes.
It's just like in--
You still have your bonus and your movement
if you wanna do anything or are you gonna stay put?
(groaning)
Um, okay, um,
(inhaling)
oh, you know what I'm gonna do?
Whatcha gonna do?
Is--
Whatcha gonna do with all this--
(laughing)
Okay.
I thought you were gonna say,
"Whatcha gonna do when you get outta jail?
"I'm gonna have some fun."
I'm going to use Zealous Presence.
Ooh yeah.
And it's a bonus action, this is for everybody.
I'll unleash a battle cry and up to 10 other creatures,
all of you guys, you gain advantage
on attack rolls and saving throws.
Oh!
Until next round, right?
Until the start of
your next turn.
Right.
Oh, so the start of your next turn.
'Til the start of my next turn.
Awesome.
So, this round--
So, you strike twice, the guy doesn't go down
and starts lumbering angrily towards you,
you just go (roars) and you just give out
this piercing fallen angel scream
that echoes through the middle of this swamp.
You guys hear this, as the echo kind of
cha-kch-kch, you hear (makes thunder noises).
A stormless sky, yet you hear thunder rolling
and a flash in the distance as the Storm Lord--
(excitedly talking over each other)
It's within 60 feet.
That's all of them.
That's everybody? Okay, great.
Finished your go?
That'll be my go.
All right, it's their turn.
That's a real good go.
This guy's just gonna run right over
to Jester and this guy's gonna stay put.
I forgot about that.
This guy's gonna, I think, yeah,
this guy moves in and tries to push past.
Oh my god, this is terrifying.
That's as far as they can
get there.
Like the visual.
That one's not affected.
No, he's not affected
but the next, yeah, that guy is.
Do we get attacks of opportunity?
Fjord does.
That guy was affected.
But if we, we can hold it if we want to.
Yeah.
Okay.
If you hit one--
Correct.
It doesn't break on all,
does it?
No.
It just breaks on the one.
So you're not given to opportunity?
I'm gonna listen to--
One, two, three, four.
Yeah, can get right there.
What about
that little guy over by the tree?
Right here?
Yeah.
(whimpering)
Four, that's as far as he gets there.
(shuddering)
All right, so they just all kinda move forward.
All of a sudden--
Those two are unaffected?
Yeah.
Those two are unaffected
and that, so three of them are unaffected currently.
So Jester, you watch them all swarm
and you hear this kind of, this whole chorus of (groans).
You look around you and they're all just
glaring in your direction, some with both eyes,
some with the one eye they have, some with no eyes
but the very force that holds them together
through necrotic arcane terrible magic
that rocks into this swamp is still looking
right in your direction and it's not fun.
Help.
The one that's
still upon you that's kinda pulled apart
is gonna go ahead and strike you twice,
Yasha.
'Kay.
(dice clattering)
Ah, natural one and an 18.
That hits.
All right, so you do take
(dice clattering)
five points of slashing damage, reduced to two
because you're raging.
Tight.
Fjord, two attacks against you.
All right.
And this one's gonna
go ahead and move in a bit to about there,
kinda fill the gap between the three of you and
yup, it's gonna go ahead and take two strikes against you.
All right.
(dice clattering)
(clicks tongue) That's cocked, Harry.
Okay, there we go.
Ah, an eight and a 21.
21 hits.
(dice clattering)
Oh, that was a cock in that one.
Ooh, eight points of slashing damage on that one.
And he will take seven points of radiant damage as the
sword bursts with radiant energy each time I'm struck.
As it hits him, kshh, he rushes past.
The impact of that radiant energy burns up the back
and you see the neck itself kind of snap from
the tendons that are no longer holding it up,
it's kinda (makes creaking noise) dangles there
and the mouth kinda goes (growls).
Oh my, what?
It's hanging on by a thread.
That's so cool.
Yeah.
And then this one here is gonna rush over to you, Nott,
(screaming)
around the corner and make two strikes
against you.
No!
(dice clattering)
Oh shit.
Uh--
Shit.
20 and a natural 20.
(groaning)
Well, it hit.
Dang.
That I can, I can counter the natural 20 on that one,
though, 'cause I still have, now I have a reaction--
New turn.
You do,
now you do, yes.
Yeah.
So, no natural, no crit on you.
Okay.
Gimme a snap.
(snapping)
Technically, you woulda got your
reaction back 'cause you got your turn--
It was in the same turn, the last time.
No, you're right, you're right.
Yeah.
So--
We're cool.
Yeah yeah,
I was making sure, anyway, it's fine, you can do it.
(laughing)
So it's just two damage.
Lemme mark that.
That is
11 points of slashing damage to you, Nott.
For both or just the first?
For both.
Oh, okay.
Not as much
'cause the crit got canceled by Caduceus there.
That finishes their turn.
That brings us to Nott, you're up.
Caduceus, you're on deck.
Oh boy.
I'm stuck in front of this fellow, I don't like it.
Well, I can't do what I wanted to do,
so I will say, "Fjord, cover your eyes!"
And I will fire through the one in front of me at the one
engaged with Fjord.
Okay.
(dice clattering)
What'd you roll?
15.
15, that'll hit, go to roll damage.
As it shoots through, not only are you pushing past Fjord
but you're also waiting for a moment
where the giant gorilla that's slamming towards it
brings the fists up and you, shh, streak past
and still manage to hit the creature.
Like a million points.
Oh my god.
It had one hit point.
(laughing)
You hit it, dshh.
What a waste of all those
amazing rolls.
I know.
And he collapses and falls into the swamp, unmoving.
Then his body swells.
Ugh!
(laughing)
And poison all around you.
Run for your--
I need Beauregard, I need gorilla man,
and I need Fjord to go ahead and make--
Not Beau.
I'm good.
Oh not Beau 'cause you're fine.
With advantage and a D4.
Yep.
(dice clattering)
Oh, with advantage?
With advantage and a D4.
Way better.
(dice clattering)
25.
25, nice.
So, you take eight points of poison damage.
'Kay.
20.
You take eight points of poison damage.
There you go. (rubs hands)
Climbing is an action?
Or is it a movement?
You can climb
a certain amount with half, your movement is very minimized,
but you can attempt it.
Hm.
Ah-hmm, ah-hmm.
(laughing)
I will disengage with the one in front of me.
Okay.
And I will run and
slide under, between
Capeleb's
legs, between his legs just to--
Capeleb?
Capeleb.
Just kinda rush through and come to the other side,
you mean?
Yeah.
Yeah, that's doable.
So, you kind of run and you slide
and because it's all slick marshland,
it kinda Slip 'N Slides you, shh,
through the gorilla's legs and out the other side.
You kinda catch yourself and look up.
Ooh, I went over a rock.
You almost got, lookin' up, foreheaded by the monkey wang.
(laughing)
Alrighty, that finishes--
Did they all make saving throws at the
end of their turn to see if they broke the--
We should do that now.
Yeah.
All right, so those,
him?
Fail.
Him?
(dice clattering)
(chuckling)
That's cocked.
(dice clattering)
Succeed.
Oh!
He is free.
I'm gonna go ahead and mark that just to have it.
That one?
Very
patriarchal society--
Fail.
That one?
Of zombies.
Fail.
Wow.
What?
They really like your diamond.
They really like that diamond.
They have a shitty wisdom saving throw.
What about this one?
Yeah, I don't think Matt can see that one.
Do you see this one behind the tree?
Oh shit, yeah, I'm blockin' my own self.
He would have gone--
I was blockin' myself.
As well.
So, just to mark that off there, Caduceus,
you do have two attacks on you from the one
that you blasted back last round that
did catch up, thank you for the reminder.
I was blocking with my own terrain.
Too much terrain.
(dice clattering)
That is a, cock number, 23 and a 20.
Those hit.
All right.
You take 12 points of slashing damage.
(laughing)
As the one that you blasted back now kind of
scoots towards you really low to the ground
and as it comes up, it just rakes you twice upward
with these kind of rising claw strikes.
(talking over each other)
How am I, I'm in contact with, oh my god,
I've got a lot of them around me, don't I?
Yeah.
A lot of them just rushed past you
and are staring at Jester, but one of them did
manage to come--
One of them,
I'm engaged with one.
Correct.
Okay.
All right, so that brings us, then,
Nott's turn, Caduceus, you're up.
Beau, you're on deck.
I'm trying to take a look at what's going on.
First thing I'm gonna do is I'm going to take my movement.
I'm actually, yeah, I'm gonna take my movement,
I'm gonna come as far out this way as I can.
That's as far as you can get to there,
next to the floating stump.
You're kinda up to waist-high in water.
Cool cool.
That one that just
attacked you does get attack of opportunity against you.
And rolls natural one, so it goes to strike towards you
and just kinda slips and then falls into the water
and spends the rest of the kinda the next round of action
just tryna get out of the muck.
What're you doin'?
Are we, have we,
are we doing a thing?
We can do the thing, mm hm.
What's the thing?
I'm going to hold
Turn Undead and I'm going to wait for
Jester's signal.
Okay, you got it.
So, you're holding Turn Undead as an action.
That finishes your go.
That brings us to Beauregard.
Do I see
any of this signaling happening?
Right now, you are--
Do I have any clue, huh?
They haven't made a signal towards you, so probably not.
All right.
We were standing in--
The zombie Jesus and the guy who was next to me,
I'm just gonna keep wailing on them.
Go for it.
(dice clattering)
And I have an advantage on attack rolls?
Yes.
You do, yup.
(dice clattering)
Okay, first one.
21.
That hits.
Second one, ho-ho, 13.
Both hit.
I rolled a natural one and a three.
Natural one misses automatically.
No, but that was--
No, with advantage.
With advantage.
Oh, the advantages.
Right, yeah.
Yeah.
So, both hit.
Yeah, one to each.
Go for it.
First one, wait, did you say something
about advantage on attack rolls?
Yep.
Yup.
So what, you get to re-roll it if you don't--
No, attack rolls, not damage.
Oh, okay.
Yep.
Not damage, not damage.
Correct.
Attack rolls and saving throws.
And saving throws.
You don't really need--
Okay, 11 to zombie Jesus.
Zombie Jesus falls--
Zombie Jesus--
Oh!
And the other one, how much?
Killed?
Don't worry,
he'll rise again.
Oh okay, yeah.
And the other one is nine.
Don't let zombie Jesus fall 'cause he'll knock the--
We got three days, we got three days.
The other ones aren't affected by
the poison, so it's fine.
They don't take damage.
Okay, good.
Burn themselves.
So, both of those, you punch, and as you hit them,
like pinatas filled with toxic juice, they both
(laughing)
just explode, scattering venomous liquid
across the field around all of you.
And just for a second, it goes slow motion
and Beau just like, Flashdance bathes--
In the poison.
In the goop.
With your friends
behind you screaming in pain.
Yes.
That's amazing.
Very metal, very metal.
To that, I need Jester
and you, monkey man, to go ahead and make
a constitution saving throw
with advantage, as of Yasha's epic scream--
I asked her how to make a constitution saving throw
'cause I was attacked and I have a spell up, but I--
Oh, yeah.
Just rolled a 20,
everything's fine.
What should you do,
throw this diamond and make them--
19.
Chase it away?
19? Okay.
Oh, shit, okay.
That is
20 points--
Oh wait, I would add
a D4 to that?
No, that's just for--
Saving throws.
Yeah, so I would've rolled a, added a D4.
Oh, so what'd I say, 19?
20.
So, 10 points of damage.
Go ahead and make a constitution check
or a constitution saving throw
to see if you maintain your spell.
Constitution saving throw also has advantage
in a D4.
Yup.
Yes it does.
(dice clattering)
Okay.
Ooh, ooh.
Ooh!
17 plus three, 20.
20.
Okay, so you maintain concentration on your spells.
The other blast, I'm gonna need Nott,
just Nott to go ahead and make a constitution throw.
I need to roll as well.
Yeah, oh, sorry.
21.
21, so that's another 10 points
of poison damage to your monkey.
And you also have advantage with a D4.
Oh yeah, you get advantage--
And a D4 added.
Oh, that's slightly better.
Still bad.
(chuckles) Constitu--
Yep.
You've got your D4--
Plus a D4.
Not real good.
Right now I'm at a nine and now I'm at an 11.
That's still a fail.
You take 16 points of poison damage.
I'm gonna use uncanny something?
No, it's an area affect.
Yes, constitution save is not a dexterity saving throw.
Evas--
Actually, no, it's not.
It's for halve damage, right?
I'm gonna avoid air.
Evasion?
Lemme check, lemme check.
Little check on--
Dancing between
the raindrops.
Kind of, yeah.
(imitated whooshing)
Double check the wording on the rogue ability here.
Maybe you can duck underwater
for a second.
Sure.
No no, I can't--
You're little.
I don't like that.
Well, you could.
You also have a--
Saving throw,
it's constitution, so it is unaffected
by evasion, unfortunately, so.
16 points.
16 points
of poison damage to you.
Alrighty.
Does your ring make it so that
you can run full speed on a--
I have been running full speed--
Okay.
But I don't know if
that's because of the ring or just because
I'm awesome.
Oh, that's fair.
Well, because of the ring, you don't
have to worry about the terrain.
Bro Hefner.
I'm gonna go--
I'm drinking chai.
That is now from Caduceus', now Beau's turn, to Caleb.
Caleb, you're up, Jester, you're on deck.
So, this is a whole crowd of them still staring at Jester
and this one in red is the one that is active.
This one in red and this one
and the one that's still attacking Yasha over there,
those are the three that are currently unaffected.
All right, well where the monkey is looking,
he can see this one who is red and turns over
and sees it snarling at Jester.
He is a monkey, he goes forward
and pounds it into the ground.
Ugh, but then--
Move over here
to make space for it.
Maybe throw him away from me?
So, go for it, make the attacks.
(whispering)
Lemme see.
What's his intelligence?
What are you looking for?
His intelligence is seven,
that is exactly what he does.
Okay, so that's 30, 10 misses.
Who's fucked?
Okay, just checking, just checking who's fucked.
The first is a 24.
24 to hit? All right, that hits.
And
24.
Both hit.
Yeah.
Is that the attacks or the damage?
That's the damage.
Both hits?
I should
probably roll to hit.
And it's an advantage for him, yes?
Correct.
With a D4.
With a D4, so--
So, the first one is?
10, 10, 10 is 19--
That hits.
Plus a four, okay.
Wait.
That's a 20.
Yeah, one's a, oh no, that's not, an advantage.
Yeah, that's a 20.
(sighs) Got distracted.
Wrong one.
Yup.
You're good.
It's fine.
Roll the second attack to see if
it hits.
Okay.
(dice clattering)
That is only a
11 plus 2 is 13.
Both hit, all damage is there.
Even without the critical hit, that was enough to kill it.
'Kay.
Yeah.
That one explodes once more.
This time as it does, it kind of sprays an upward geyser
of kind of greenish-brackish liquid and it kinda, shhh,
rains down on the immediate vicinity around where it was.
I need Jester and yourself to go ahead,
and Yasha, to make constitution saving throws, please.
Okay.
Brackish.
(dice clattering)
Oh, shit.
And this gets a D4 to this as well.
Yep.
Mmhm.
Yasha.
12.
12, you just barely make it, that is,
you take 10 points of poison damage.
Okay.
10.
20 points of poison damage to you, Jester,
and I need you to go ahead and make
a constitution saving throw, with advantage.
And a D4.
Mmhm.
18.
You take 10 points of poison damage.
Yup.
Ooh.
Oh, that's nice.
Yeah, that's good.
That's nice.
I rolled 19 plus three, so 22.
Yeah, so you still manage to maintain your concentration.
Yes.
Yeah, you're fine.
Alrighty, that finish your turn, Caleb?
Yeah.
All right.
Also, I think 'cause you took the damage,
you took 10 points of damage?
Mmhm.
I'm tryna think, there's definitely
concentration checks for the--
Oh, for the--
Polymorph form.
Okay.
Just make
a couple for me, real fast.
Sure.
With advantage and a D4.
It's already an advantage because I'm--
Correct.
War Caster.
(dice clattering)
16.
You're fine.
Yeah.
Go one more time?
(laughing)
Yeah, he's Shakaste's brother, Warkaste.
13 plus, uh, 20.
Just making sure
that we were keeping track as we go.
All right, cool.
Finished with Caleb's go.
Jester, you're up, Fjord, you're on deck.
Thank you.
Okay, I'm going to,
I'm going to Dimension Door.
(gasps) Oh.
Okay.
This is new.
I'm gonna
Dimension Door right here,
next to Caduceus.
Okay.
So, boof, right next to him.
And I'm gonna say,
"This is a signal."
Got it.
(laughing)
All right, and you release Turn Undead.
Turn Undead.
Alrighty.
Which, yeah.
Just checkin'--
Depending on
what level they are at--
That's what I'm sayin',
depending on the level here.
(pages flipping)
All right.
Second or lower, I believe.
Yep, second or lower.
Okay.
Here we go.
Turn Undead--
That's everybody in that radius.
Yup, 30 feet.
Oh, (laughs) 17.
That one?
Oh, uh.
The DC in this is
17?
Is 17?
Is, I believe it's 17.
Wow, he succeeds.
Wow.
I think,
it's my spell, it's my
spell DC, right?
Correct.
Yeah, 17.
Pop.
Ooh!
Yes.
Turns to--
Pop pop.
The poison splashes, then it turns to dust.
That one over there, same.
Pop.
You watch 'em just kinda, as Caduceus focuses and releases
this energy outward, as opposed to a shockwave blast,
the energy kinda just all the sudden drifts up
off the ground like this kinda fire-like spark-less lift,
and then, bvvv, bursts like a thousand tiny fireworks
across the way and as they come (makes popping sounds)
around the undead, it goes around you guys
and it's just like this warm kind of wave that passes by.
As it explodes near them, you watch it, bsh, explode,
their body scatters outward and then turns to ash.
But the poison still splatters.
Yeah.
Ugh.
That one there?
That's okay,
they're all clumped together,
they're away from--
Bam, psh.
Yes.
That one.
Psh.
Yes.
Turn down for what?
Boop ba doop a doo.
That one.
Beau just
three-point lands in the rain pool and like--
This is how it's done.
Music video moment.
Yeah, like a--
Tim Robbins in Shawshank.
Yes, yeah.
Oh,
I was thinking like Tom Holland
dancing to Rihanna.
Tom Holland.
(laughing)
Okay, sorry, you guys get--
On Fallon, yeah.
Yasha and Caleb, I need you to make another
constitution saving throw with advantage.
And a D4.
Or like Step Up, Step Up 2,
or Step Up 3D where they did the dance in the rain.
Uh huh.
Step Up, Step Up 2--
Basically, any dance sequence with a rain pool.
With advantage and a D4.
Okay.
(dice clattering)
Oh, same, okay, so.
Jesus, you're fine.
Oh yeah, okay.
Oh lord, oh lord.
Just say the number out loud.
(humming)
29.
Eight points
of poison damage.
Okay.
15.
Eight points of poison damage.
All right.
Oh, and I lost the--
So one,
one shmeasel skeleton left?
One skeleton left, or the,
the kind of lasting husk zombie.
Yeah.
My Syrinscape crashed.
That's okay.
Oh.
That's okay, it's easy enough to get
back into battle stuff, you know how it goes.
(laughing)
Alrighty, that finishes.
Doo da doo ba doo.
Oh no, yeah, that was your action.
There's only one left?
There is one left at the moment.
Can I--
Turn Undead, man.
For my bonus action--
Mm?
Yep.
That's the cleric thing.
Oh wait, no.
Nevermind.
'Cause you did the spell.
I did the spell, so--
That was a good call, though.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
All right, that finishes your go.
Fjord.
I'll rush over and take
the last remaining undead piece of shit,
two swings.
Go up for it.
Uh, that's crap, 15.
15 hits.
Yes.
All right.
Second one is a 21.
Hits.
Yes.
All right, all right.
Ooh.
10, high, 19.
(dice clattering)
(snapping)
21 points of slashing damage in the first one.
Nice.
And
11 plus,
13 points of slashing damage on the second one.
You're adding the D4 to those?
Yes.
For the attack
or the damage?
For the damage.
They should be in it for the attack,
not the damage.
Right, my fault.
So, 11 points on the second one and only 18 points
on the first one.
You got it.
So, as you rush up, tsh tsh, whush,
strike once in the midsection
(groans) and that kind of holds him in place,
like the impact caused its back to seize,
the second strike, shh, carves back through its leg
and its leg kinda folds and splinters,
the bone, ka-chh, breaking in two pieces.
(makes squelching noise) The head (makes stretching noise)
bends backwards in an unhealthy way
and the tongue kinda (growls) lolls open.
Still standing and it's real angry.
He's still standin'?
Yup.
You didn't what?
I didn't roll them
with advantage.
You should roll to see if
you get a natural 20 on either of those.
It's true.
Yeah,
just do two more rolls.
Two rolls to see if they're 20.
Nope.
Okay, good enough.
All right, Yasha, you're up.
Okay, well, I mean, I don't think I can get over there.
Can I get over there?
You can certainly try.
I can try.
You can make it.
5, 10, 15, 20, 25,
30,
35, 40.
Yeah, you can.
Okay, okay.
Whoa.
All right,
so I take a swing.
I got friends in low--
Big ol' swing,
that's cocked, that's cocked again.
Here we go.
Ooh.
Good thing I have advantage.
Oh wait.
You do not have
advantage anymore, unless you want--
That was a natural one.
Oh.
Yeah, you did not call it--
Unless I what?
You didn't call Reckless Attacks before--
Oh yeah, no, no-no-no.
So, the first one misses.
You go forward and as you go to swing, your foot catches
one of the swamp roots and you almost fly into it.
You get your blade up in time before you stumble into
its kind of flayed body and it manages to
block you with its weight.
As you kind of catch yourself again,
its head, just partially pulled back,
is like (makes chomping noises) biting over
the edge of the blade as you retract
and get yourself in the right position.
Second attack.
Okay.
You have a D4 on that, too.
I do?
Okay, let's see.
Yeah.
I mean, if I don't mess up the rolls.
(dice clattering)
Yup.
Okay.
19.
19 damage or 19 to hit?
19 to hit.
19 does hit,
go ahead and roll damage.
Okay.
Eight, nine, (whispers) 16.
16 points of damage.
(dice clattering)
(laughing)
You stab it with the second strike and actually bisect it.
Its torso falls to the ground and the legs kinda
crumple into place and you're waiting for it
to explode.
Wait for it.
Instead, the legs kinda get back up
and the torso climbs up onto its legs.
What, it's still alive?
Fuck.
It was the one that made its Undead Fortitude
save for this entire fuckin' fight.
(laughing)
Fucking die.
So,
it remains at one hit point.
Don't take it personally.
(groaning)
All right.
Okay.
That finishes your turn, I believe.
Can I try, yeah.
I can't do anything else.
'Cause the Hex Blades curse
target died.
Ooh, it did.
Call that.
You hear additional moans come rushing--
No!
You are lying.
We just, whatta we do?
How do we get out of here?
From where you guys were over in the space,
these guys rush in here--
Oh.
They're just gonna keep coming.
Should we run?
These two--
I feel like that's the only--
Other part of the swamp.
I'd have to start over.
I know.
This time,
as all of them have been falling and fighting,
these all rush forward and as they're
getting towards you, and they're rushing quickly,
as they're getting near your bodies,
you watch their bodies swell
(makes sucking noises) psh, pop pop pop.
They're not even going into combat, they're just--
Exploding?
Detonating around you.
Isn't it, if they were within 30 feet when I would've,
when it hit that, would that have been a--
They were out of the range and just rushed in
'cause you guys moved, you guys moved
to the outside that realm.
So, I need Caduceus
Mmhm.
And Jester to go make, this is gonna be here.
Caduceus, you make two saving throws
for me.
Okay.
They don't have advantage anymore.
No.
No more advantage.
Okay, that's all right, I got a D4.
(dice clattering)
Constitution saving throw?
Oh.
Mmhm.
Uh, 25.
Okay, eight points of poison damage.
That's, and Jester, if you don't mind.
(dice clattering)
12.
8 points of poison damage.
Second one against you, Caduceus.
Go ahead and roll again.
I mean--
It's gonna add up real fast.
Are we just gonna keep going?
Yeah.
(sighs) 20.
20?
Eight points of poison damage.
Jester.
(dice clattering)
Mm, that's better.
I definitely saved.
Okay, that would be 10 points of poison damage.
And Caduceus?
Oh, I was.
Oh no, you're on against the third one.
I was doing a--
Sorry.
(talking over each other.
Another one?
You made two, right?
Yeah.
Sorry, then you're fine.
Oh, I'm okay?
Those are all the ones you guys have to worry about.
And then, I rolled to maintain concentration and rolled
a 25.
Okay.
Good, good on you.
Nott.
Yeah.
Twice for me, if you don't mind.
Sure.
(dice clattering)
Oh shit.
Do we have the advantage?
No.
Then, one was a--
You should just
roll again 'cause they hit each other, it was a thing.
And then, plus a D4.
One was a 20, it shouldn't.
Well, now those are terrible.
Thanks, Laura.
Oh sorry, well.
Doesn't matter.
It's single digits.
14 points of poison damage.
Sorry.
Cool.
Can I evade one of them?
Nope, it is not a dexterity-based.
Oh, doing your Uncanny Dodge, you mean?
Sure.
Evasion's only against
dexterity saving throws, unfortunately,
and Evade, I think, has to be in--
It's fine.
They're both duds.
(clunking)
Well, Evade is against an attack.
This technically doesn't count
as an attack, so it's not an--
I'll just take it, it's fine.
Uncanny Dodge, it hits you with an attack,
so it is not a hit or attack, so you take,
for the second one, I totally forgot, actually.
(dice clattering)
Oof, 19 points of poison damage.
Ouchies.
(imitated exploding noises)
And the one that's currently between Yasha and Fjord
is gonna go ahead and strike twice, once at each of you.
Okay.
Against you, Fjord.
Mmhm.
That's gonna be a 14.
It'll miss.
Yasha, that is a 16.
No.
It strikes out
and both you guys just managed to push it away.
It's barely holding on, its body, its upper torso
kind of runs or its upper torso just climbs up
its legs, leaps, and scrambles towards Yasha.
The legs just kind stay there on its own,
kinda using its own body as a catapult.
You push it off onto Fjord and Fjord, you catch it
and like, "Ah!"
Throw it at me?
You throw it back on the ground.
(laughing)
That's their turn.
Have some dignity in death.
Nott, you're up.
I mean, are they gonna keep coming?
Should we run?
Do you wanna take your action to look around?
No, I'll shoot the one between Yasha and Fjord.
Go for it.
Just take it off the,
24.
That hits.
A million points of damage.
It, yeah.
We'll see if it makes its,
(dice clattering)
it does not make its Undead Fortitude save.
I need Yasha and Fjord to make
another constitution saving throw.
Mmhm.
Oh god.
Without advantage.
With advantage?
(dice clattering)
Let's stop killing--
Hoo, 21.
Stop.
We need to run away.
We also have to stop--
20 total.
If they're next to people.
Seven points of poison damage to each of you.
Okay.
What're you guys doin'?
Fuckin' movin'--
We, how,
where do we go?
Keep moving through it or try to get back to the--
I'm gonna do a Detect Undead really quickly again.
Okay.
60 feet.
In that radius, you sense no other
undead in your immediate vicinity.
So, there's nothing in 60 feet.
Nothing yet.
Do this now?
(grunting)
Do you wanna build--
And that's,
that will last for a little while, so.
Oh, that will last for awhile?
There's nothing around us right now.
It's last for how long?
Let me tell you.
How many points of damage did we just take?
Seven.
Seven, okay.
Turn Undead lasts for a minute.
This is, oh awesome, Turn Undead is also still up.
Is Turn Undead concentration, though?
Uh, no.
No.
Hold on, I'm looking.
Eyes of the Grave is until the end of my next turn.
Okay, so it stays up for the next round.
So and the second, if anything comes
into the next round, I get an instant warning.
Turn Undead is--
It doesn't
say anything about concentration on here-
No, I don't think Turn Undead is--
Concentration.
No, it is turn form,
it doesn't last for a minute, meaning if
they're turn, they are.
If they're turn--
That's what I thought.
It's an instant move and it can,
the fear that you put in them
can last a minute.
Okay.
So, does that mean you can't detect things right now?
There is nothing--
Immediately around you.
Immediately around us.
What are you guys doing?
You're all covered in gunk, your body itself is--
We should heal.
Burning from the poison
that's now kind of seeped into the outside of your
exposed flesh and begun to found its way into your armor.
Be better to save mass heals for when someone goes down
so it gets them up and heals everybody, I think.
What?
It's quiet, we're here.
Should we just try and put the hut back up?
If something comes, we run.
Capeleb is--
11 minutes
and then the other half of us stand watch.
Apeleb, Capeleb?
They're not gonna
stay away for 11 minutes, but--
I am keeping a very sharp eye out for anything.
We should just keep going.
All right.
Let's keep going.
Up to you guys.
You guys are still going?
Try to get out of the mist.
So, is the mist, did the mist cover the whole forest?
Yeah, I guess.
Yes.
We don't know.
Since you began to enter the forest,
the mist was kind of slowly hanging around
the hut anyway, the house, it's just been getting thicker
as the night progresses and the temperature drops.
So, it's just gonna get--
We gotta hut it.
We gotta hut.
There's no escaping it.
Well, we just keep walking through the night, no?
With exhaustion already?
I think we're just gonna make more noise.
We should chance it for the 10 minutes for the hut.
Let's do 10 minutes.
Okay.
I'll jump up and down and start signaling to Caleb.
And I'm gonna keep Turn Undead prepped for,
if anything comes near us, I'm gonna immediately
cast Turn Undead.
Okay.
If I see a feather move in the forest,
I'm gonna immediately do Detect.
Magic.
Okay, you got it.
So, you guys--
You, smart person.
Gorilla goes fft.
You know, I can understand everything that you're saying.
Oh, we didn't have to talk to you like idiots?
No.
Oh.
Okay, so--
You shoulda told us that.
Shh.
You go back to
that little patch of land you had
situated in the middle of this battle
and you begin the 10 minute process
of preparing this ritual a second time.
Who, I would say all of you guys,
everyone make a stealth check.
Ooh.
Oh, it's that fucking trunk probably attracted--
The trunk sound is what you think attracted them.
With advantage.
They weren't drawn to you
until they heard the loud crack and the splash in the water.
Oh, I'm getting myself a D4 as well.
21.
Mmhm.
8.
15.
29.
19.
18.
9.
Wait, these are--
Stealth.
A disadvantage.
A disadvantage for--
Yes.
Disadvantage?
Oh, against anyone that's exhausted.
For anybody who has exhaustion.
Eight still.
And mine is a natural one.
Oh, your first one was a natural one?
Yeah.
Okay.
Did you have a point of exhaustion from last game?
I don't think--
I don't think I do.
No, you weren't exhausted.
Okay.
But I do have
Reliable Talent?
It does say
condition is exhaustion.
Oh, then you do.
So yeah, so you roll again.
So yeah, that would be a 10 plus whatever
bonus you have.
23.
It's still 9.
Yeah.
Yeah, um.
Before too, so.
What're these, stealth?
Yeah.
So what is it?
Nine still.
Nine still?
Yeah.
17.
17, okay.
You guys begin kind of guarding the space and keeping
a look out, you two in particular being ready and watchful.
About five or so minutes into this casting,
you begin to see a few more shapes
kind of emerging from the mist,
seemingly still drawn from the nearby sound of battle.
They look a little confused, meaning that
they're not coming directly, bee-lining at you,
but the sounds of combat that recently happened here,
they've been moving in that direction
and you guys haven't moved away from your position,
so they're just now catching up to you.
They're about, I'd say at this point,
you can clock them at about 50 feet from you.
I will cast Major Image--
Yes.
And put a giant thrashing young blue dragon
120 feet in that direction.
Okay.
As you guys see this and you're beginning to prep yourself,
all of a sudden you hear this (roars),
the cracking and breaking of trees.
You glance over and you see a fucking young blue dragon
just land in the middle of this swamp and begin growling,
its mouth crackling with electrical energy.
And you watch as these undead,
immediately their heads turn (growls)
and begin running in that direction.
Oh, okay.
He's back, he's back.
No--
He's back to--
It's me, it's me, I did, I did it,
I did, (rolls tongue) that's me.
(laughing)
How long can that last?
10 minutes?
That's amazing
10 minutes.
Ah.
Okay.
You, then, sit there and wait and watch
as the loud noise that that Major Image is creating,
two more,
six more,
a dozen more,
you eventually, probably, in the period of time
it takes for you to finish this ritual,
watch somewhere between 40 to 50 more of these undead
come out of the mists from different places,
the shadows just rushing through,
once again at a sprinting speed for a zombie-like creature
in the direction of this dragon,
as thrashing around as they're just kind of
walking in and out of its space, not intelligent enough
to really discern that it's an illusion and just
confused and frustrated that it's not having any effect.
Some of them are popping and exploding
in the hopes of taking this down,
this thing that doesn't exist.
But it's a large, large group of them now.
Probably about 30 or so are just there, nestled around
this dragon illusion.
Oh my god.
As you finish creating the dome. (makes poofing noise)
It is a green and brown mottled color
and it is less moist inside than out,
except for the ground.
Okay.
You guys all step inside?
Yeah.
I will drop it and step inside.
Drop it.
Okay.
Ooh.
They're all gonna
just come out and, like--
Yeah, they're
just gonna pound this.
Well, here's the thing.
We're gonna give it some time.
Well, they're not gonna see us, they can't hear us.
If they come back, we can just Turn Undead
and just keep Turning Undead until
they all go away.
Okay.
I can still do it, you can still do it.
We can still do that.
We'll be fine.
I don't think the group will get through the thing.
And they can hear through the--
Yeah.
Dome?
Okay.
Yeah, so we should just be
quiet as possible for awhile.
Quiet, quiet.
Caleb is picking little insects out of the damaged tree
that was pulled up and is just feeding them to Frumpkin.
There's plenty.
Oh, I take after and I start
doing that for Sprinkle, too.
Okay.
You stop yourself a couple times
before feeding it to Sprinkle 'cause
the toxic poison that was thrown all around this area
where you guys are planning to sleep--
No no, she gives it to Sprinkle.
(laughing)
Good sleep, good sleep.
Shh, shh.
(laughing)
I welcome it.
Just to help everybody heal overnight,
I'm gonna take a few minutes to do
a Prayer of Healing.
Okay.
We all are very, very, very quiet until, you know,
(dice clattering)
hopefully the zombies start to, like.
Yup.
So, as you all get quiet and kind of rest
and begin setting up your space here and you're doing what?
A Prayer of Healing for 25 hit points to everybody.
How long does it take to cast?
Ugh.
10 minutes.
10 minutes?
Okay.
25 points, okay.
So, the illusion drops before you finish
casting your prayer.
Mmhm.
(sneezing)
Gesundheit.
So, as you're kind of quietly muttering the incantation,
I would like you to make a,
(sneezing)
bless you.
Bless you.
Just a general stealth check for me.
All right.
(chuckling)
(dice clattering)
I don't think I can do that.
Can I guide him in this moment?
I feel like--
You can
Blessing of the Trickster with him if you want to.
What does that give me?
Advantage.
Oh, so it's just a straight roll,
I don't have disadvantage.
That's cool, that helps.
(dice clattering)
16.
16, okay.
You manage to speak the incantation
loud enough that it manages to maintain the spell itself
but not enough to draw the attention.
In that kind of little bit of crossover time,
you watch the dragon that's just
thrashing and growling and making noise
in the middle of the swamp here suddenly (pops lips) vanish.
And then right as you're getting towards
the end of your spell, you can see
some of the shapes wandering
from where that cluster of zombies were.
Right as you finish the healing effect, it flashes,
and it heals you all for how much?
Everybody for 25 hit points.
25 hit points to all of you.
"Thank you, sir,"
I say quietly.
(laughs) But the light does not emerge because
the dome manages to remain obfuscating the interior.
But you all watch quietly and tensely as,
over the next hour or so, they just
begin to kind of scatter out a bit.
And others that you didn't notice
kind of walk through the mist behind you.
Night here is a very dangerous thing.
Wow.
At least in
this particular part of the swamp.
But cold.
What did
this place used to be?
Why are there so many dead people here?
Caduceus--
We're whispering
all of this, nothing above a teeny, tiny whisper.
Both of you guys can make history checks
if you want to.
Gotta say, would I know?
You might, make a history check.
Yeah.
Okay.
The two Empire kids might.
Would I know being close, nearby, raised here?
That's what this roll's for.
(laughing)
Oh wait, I don't have advantage.
Nope.
I'll say
because you lived here, close to here, sure.
Roll advantage.
They were both,
but I'm also exhausted, so I'll take
the lower of the two, which is 15.
15, okay.
18.
Wait, 15 is what I rolled.
Okay, plus?
With a history check, it's--
7,000.
23.
23, okay.
Ooh.
During the time of the Julous Dominion--
Beau knows.
During the time
of the Julous Dominion, before the Dwendalian Empire
and the Julous Dominion had their fight,
there were certain sects of people
that lived in what is now the Truscan Vale
and around these mountains that had built
an entire colony based around this,
what they proclaimed to be a god-like creature
that existed in this mountain.
They referred to it as the Twilight Phoenix
and they would burn effigies to it.
They have this longstanding belief that
this mountain was kind of its home
or its what it became when it eventually laid to rest.
And that's why they explain all the geothermal activity
around here they say is just a remnant of it.
Twilight Phoenix.
We did see
a purple sort of firebird down in that
temple of Uk'otoa.
Uk'otoa.
But the people that worshiped this--
Oh right.
The people that
worshiped this entity around this area
also made a lot of enemies and the Julous Dominion itself,
though they were within its terrain, at some point,
they were hunted down and killed in their homeland,
pretty much just wiped out around the base of Mount Mentiri.
I have a question.
Yes.
When you were seeing that vision of Uk'otoa.
Uk'otoa.
And he showed you something in the mountains or something,
like, a location, are we near that?
No.
Would you know?
Yes.
Okay.
No, it's more, it's closer to the Menagerie Coast
and East and inland just a little bit,
before you get to the gate that
leads to the--
Okay, okay.
Empire, if I remember correctly.
You are correct.
Okay.
I remembered correctly?
You did.
(snapping)
Mr. Stone.
What?
Right.
Ice cold.
What?
Uk'otoa.
So, you--
What.
Right.
(laughing)
Ch-ch-ch-ch-ch-ch-ch-ch-ch.
It's always a good D&D game when Peaches comes out.
(talking over each other)
(laughing)
I can do her all day.
So--
Fuck your mountain and your phoenix.
Yeah, no.
Lore?
Lore.
Peaches.
(laughing)
I'm not explaining.
That's true, right?
We saw tapestries in that temple.
One was a purple--
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Does that sound about right?
Crap your memory is.
Is there
a roll to see if that sounds relatable?
Can I roll for relatability?
No, your history check was, you don't have
anything that directly connects to those two,
but there was a mention of phoenix
and this was a historical phoenix in this region.
Mmhm.
Yeah.
If it even existed.
Like I said, there were a lot of entities
that were worshiped that were just landmarks,
that were just, you know,
giving a persona and a divine essence
to what is essentially a landmass or a natural phenomenon.
This is not an uncommon thing.
But it could be, who knows?
(chair scraping)
Especially, then, if the worshipers
were hunted down and eradicated.
Yeah, I mean, if you really wanna get crazy,
Uk'otoa had three temples--
Uk'otoa.
And then I'm sure the other two entities might also have--
Three temples.
Right.
Maybe.
Don't know if there were, you know,
forgotten to time temples around here, do you?
Well, I know that this was also
a big battleground of the pre-Calamity--
She's whispering, that's how she whispers.
I'm whispering, yeah, very, yeah.
Do I know of any weird temples around, like ruined temples
around these parts that would fit that description?
No, based on the history check you rolled, not really,
none that you know of.
Hm.
But I know that Pride's Call is not far from here
and that's where they found the other Beacon,
it's just North of here.
Right.
Yeah, on the other side of this mountain range.
Not that this isn't the most comfortable place
we've ever been in, but now that we're in here,
Jester, do you mind telling us--
Oh, yes.
What actually happened?
What the fuck happened in there?
Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay.
As I'm talking, I'm just going to be watching
from the direction we came and see if anything's
coming out of the mist towards us or anything.
You got it.
Well,
okay, so, do you remember when I told you guys that
I could maybe do some, like, spells
that would maybe affect people's memories and stuff?
No.
Don't remember that, but--
Wow, you're real good.
I, well, (laughs) no.
(laughing)
I told you, I don't know, was I around everyone?
We were talking about it with Essek, right?
Yeah.
Oh.
Anyway,
yes, so I, I,
I sort of altered her memory
just a little to where she was like, "Oh my gosh, Jester!"
I made her think that she, like, really liked me
and that we had a really amazing time hanging out,
like, we braided each other's hair and, you know,
she just took an immediate liking to me,
maybe she saw a little bit of herself in me,
I don't know, you know.
And so,
and then she, um, she was like,
"Oh my gosh, I just like you so much.
"What can I do to make you happy?"
And I was like, "Oh change, you know,
"help Nott out and change that."
And she did.
And it just worked?
Well--
Did she,
did she realize what you had done?
No, but she did seem a little confused at the end.
And, you know what?
I don't know if that's normal 'cause
I've never done this before, but just in case,
possibly, that it's not normal, I just thought
maybe it would be smart to leave.
But, you know--
Sure.
As incredible--
If it did work
and if does stick, then, you know, I have a really cool,
powerful good friend who likes cupcakes a lot.
I'm gonna send her some, for sure.
Seems only fair.
Wow.
That's very resourceful, Jester.
Amazing.
Yeah.
Wow.
Were you nervous at all?
Oh, well, of course.
She's really scary looking, right?
You seem a little nervous now.
Well yeah, 'cause what if she comes after us?
I mean, all of us were nervous speaking with her.
At least, I was, I don't know about you,
that witch.
If it didn't work,
what were you going to do then?
Ooh,
like, run?
Maybe like--
No.
Dimension Door out of there, if I could,
or like, um, (hums).
We would've thrown down.
It would've been a throw down probably
or maybe, no, she probably woulda been
real pissed if she'd have figured out.
It would've turned into a fight.
Who knows, she might've killed me.
Anyway, thank you for getting the job done.
Yeah.
Yes, I mean,
I don't really feel any different, but I guess I am, now.
I believe that she broke it.
It really was, like, super creepy magic stuff that she did,
so I think she broke it.
But
that's just, I mean, I have so many questions, um.
But like, so if that's true then
I could just change back whenever, I guess.
I think so.
Yeah, we would
go again.
That's great.
But what about Beauregard?
What about you?
What about me?
Well, I mean, didn't she affect your family somehow?
(mysterious music)
I mean, here's the thing:
if she realizes
that, you know, I did something,
then it's possible.
But I mean, even if she doesn't realize,
it still could affect Beauregard, right?
'Cause you have this, your father did something with her?
Don't worry about me or mine.
Don't worry about you?
But--
I think it's possible
that if we killed her, the next day
all of your father's grapes would've died.
(snorting)
Honestly.
You know, it's true.
Or worse.
That's probably
what woulda happened.
But you're not worried
about your family or your safety or anything?
About what?
Well,
she said that there's a price to be paid, right?
A price to be paid
for what your father got.
(mysterious music)
Right.
What're you driving at?
I don't understand
what you're--
Aren't you worried about
anything happen--
Yeah, yeah.
It doesn't matter, don't worry about it.
Should we have killed her?
No, not at all.
I don't think it's a price on
the family, I think it's a price on him.
It's a price on everyone.
Maybe?
Well, I mean, if you're gonna
maybe things, you can maybe anything.
Maybe there is no price.
Maybe it's a price on everyone who works there,
maybe it's no price at all,
maybe it's just 10 bottles of wine.
Maybes are not useful.
That deal was made
so long ago, I would be afraid it would unroot quite a bit.
Maybe you're the price, maybe--
I thought I was.
I'm glad you're not.
Oh--
'Cause you're still here.
Maybe it was his fear and not
being able to--
Oh.
Oh, that's deep.
Thank you.
Wait, what was it?
His fear was the price?
Yeah.
Like what if he made his entire life so miserable
because he was seeking this rich goal
that he ended up making himself miserable and Beau miserable
and all these people around him miserable
and that's what she was feeding off of,
that's the price that he paid?
He didn't get to live a happy life with his wife,
he lived a very sad, sad life.
And drove his daughter away.
And now he has a son.
He'll do the same thing.
Maybe.
I--
Or maybe the price has been paid.
What's done is done, you can't turn back time.
True, and it doesn't seem like it's something
that gets fulfilled, it just sort of seems to keep going.
Is it?
I don't know.
I like having you here.
She said, "The more, the better."
Yeah.
What do you feel like?
Do you feel like your life is being siphoned away?
Do you feel happier right now?
Happier?
Yeah.
Do you feel like somebody's sucking your life force?
I feel like there's a--
I don't feel
that someone's sucking my life force.
I think it was a different deal.
There's a maximum level of happiness
possible when you're ankle-deep in swamp.
I think this is kind of lowering the baseline at the moment.
I--
Hey, hey, hey--
I, honestly, I feel, I feel guilty right now.
Guilty, why?
Because--
Why?
Because
we all went in there, well I don't know, I mean,
you said that you, you had offered to,
to go away from us and live a life of solitude
in order to, to take this curse off of me.
I mean, that was
very brave of you and--
And very not okay.
I mean, it was amazing.
No, I don't think it was.
I disagree with that entirely.
What are you talking about?
It was a sacrifice for her friend.
It would have been a sacrifice
for her and for everyone else.
Beau, you wouldn't have--
For her mostly, though.
Been making yourself miserable.
We would've been--
We would've been miserable.
We would've been so sad.
But she would've been
even more so.
I mean,
we still would've lost a friend in the end, so.
I think the hag pushed us to a lot of ultimate decisions.
Beau was ready to move away from everything,
you were ready to entertain war between nations.
I know, that's what I'm saying.
That, I, the thing that I, I was a coward.
Whisper.
I was a coward.
(gasping)
Sorry, sorry.
You all get quiet for a minute
and you watch as two of these zombies kinda like
(groans) come lumbering through the swamp, wading.
I open the door to the hut
and I just throw one of my ball bearings.
There's no door.
No, there is no door.
Oh, I just reach through and I go
pff and toss a ball bearing.
It's the South, there's a screen door, you just--
Yeah, whatever.
They're both kinda (gasps) and one of them finds the hut
and is kinda scraping against the exterior, shh, shh.
(splashing noise)
(gasps) They both (grunts) and (makes splashing noises).
(imitated scuttling noises)
Can't deal with any distractions right now.
Hey Caleb, can anybody scry on us in the hut?
Well, we are packed pretty tightly
and no one can scry on me, so probably
not at the moment.
Okay.
Just making sure.
What?
Don't go.
Well, I mean, this isn't gonna last forever, right?
So, if--
That doesn't mean
you pull the pin on it.
Follow your own advice.
Don't go.
I know you think you're done, I understand.
You're not done yet.
How do you know?
I know things.
Okay.
That's not an answer, you know that.
All right, I'll answer it: you're young,
you're full of life, you hook up with anything that moves.
You haven't even begun to live your life.
I'm this much older than you and you're ready to quit
and move on from everything that's good in your world?
There's a greatness in you that
you've maybe known three months.
This is just the beginning.
To think that you've peaked is insane.
Well, what are you gonna do?
What are your goals?
To stay with my friends, to see
what happens, to watch over you.
You've watched over me as I've explored my past.
The least I can do is return the favor.
I'm invested now, I want to see peace between these nations,
I want to see what this green cloaked figure is
that Jester keeps talking to--
His name is the Traveler.
I want to see Nott get back
what she wants--
His name is the Traveler--
Yes, the Traveler.
His name's the Traveler
and he's really awesome.
All right, it's fine.
We owe it to each other.
Yeah.
Nott doesn't seem to care about me,
but I care about her, it's okay.
I care about you, Fjord.
Tell me again.
(laughing)
I care about you, Fjord, I care about all of you.
You all would've sacrificed so much for me.
You did, you risked your life in there.
She could've seen through your little spell
and taken off your cute little head.
Well, she would've taken off my cute little hands faster.
That's bad, too.
Yeah,
we woulda come running in at the first yelp.
If we could.
We're not done until
we've saved each other.
I don't know what's
going on in that hut, you guys.
And why would we have come running in at the first yelp?
Your delts are crazy.
Thank you.
Why, why would we have come running in?
Because we care about each other.
Oh, fucking shit, we do?
Amazing, does that apply to you as well?
I don't know.
Oh, I think it does.
(laughing)
Don't do that again.
Don't you care what happens to Nott?
I guess.
Jester.
Yasha.
Okay.
This one.
Yeah.
Most of all.
Mleh.
I love you guys.
(laughing)
We did really good.
That was crazy, you should've seen her up there on the roof.
Bitch had four elbows.
(laughing)
It's not normal.
I saw it, I like, literally, I have to do a poop check.
(laughing)
I want to do it here but we're all trapped in this bubble.
Nott still has poop on her leg from--
Yeah.
What was that from, again?
(wheezing laughter)
From seeing the hag.
Oh.
Yep.
I don't wanna look.
I don't wanna break the seal and we'll all be fucked.
(laughing)
Anyway, we just got this one back,
we don't need to lose one.
Nobody goes.
Okay.
Good.
Do you think my brother's destined
for a life of misery, though?
Well, maybe you can break him from that.
Maybe there are other ways.
I mean--
Like how?
Do you wanna kidnap him?
No, but--
Maybe?
I was kinda,
I was kinda thinkin' about it.
Look at the fuzz on your chin.
That's not a bad idea.
Wait.
Did you say kidnap him?
Yeah,
what if we just suddenly take him?
Well she, I mean, Beauregard said something interesting.
She said, "Oh Luc and my brother," what is his name?
JT? TJ?
TJ.
Thoreau, Jr.
My dad's got an ego.
Luc and TJ could be friends.
What if just went back and kidnapped your brother
and took him to live--
(gasps) What if we
go up there, I Dimension Door in, I snag him up, bamf out--
Maybe TJ is going to reach an age and he'll reach out
and you'll be there to get him out of
a bad situation.
It's true.
Nothing makes siblings connect faster
than shitty parents.
That's true.
Plus, I have a good way of talking with angsty teens, so.
Just have to wait 10 years and--
(laughing)
Yeah, yeah.
Really connect.
And he's probably safer there than, you know, taking,
we can't take a baby on the road with us, you know?
We barely scared Kiri.
He's with his mother.
Kiri turned out great, okay?
He's behind shatterproof glass.
His mother, is your mother
caring at all?
She's walkin' around
with a dagger, telling people to go fuck herself.
(laughing)
Themselves.
She's caring when she,
she's caring, yeah, she cares.
I bet when your dad isn't around, your mom's cool.
That's kind of exactly it, yeah.
What if when your mom's not around, is that okay?
I think it's a little different.
If you're talkin' about yourself, it is 100% different
and do not fuckin' compare yourself to my parents.
Well, I'm totally absent right now.
But there's a difference between
pursuing the things that make you happy
and showing that and being an example to your kids
and then just totally fucking being
so self absorbed in your own damage that you
just transfer all of that in neglect to them.
That's very well put, actually.
That's really well put.
What were your parents like?
What was your mom's name?
(laughing)
Wow.
Chef's kiss.
(laughing)
I have lovely parents.
Yeah.
Ashley was her name.
(laughing)
Everyone write that down.
It was easy to remember.
(laughing)
And your father?
Travis.
(laughing)
Oh, they sound, those are the most--
Canon.
Those are great names.
Those are really good names.
Strong, strong names.
Warrior's names.
I had three older brothers who
I didn't get along with too well,
but my parents were loving and kind and--
My parents would take long trips.
Wait, yeah?
Okay.
I mean, we were--
How did you cope with that?
Very well.
We would, we had a close family
and pilgrimages and leaving home to
check in on other people was pretty common.
They'd be gone months at a time sometimes.
Your parents?
And my aunt.
Not all at once, obviously, but yes.
Eventually, every now and then,
some of my siblings would go, too.
I would've eventually gone for things longer than two weeks
to get supplies, but--
Was it lonely?
Did you miss them?
Well,
I missed them, but it wasn't lonely.
How did you know that they still
loved you while they were gone?
Absence
isn't the opposite of love.
Plenty of ways to show someone you don't love them
that don't involve not being there.
Being off and doing good work was important.
That's what we did as a family.
They were being their best selves.
My dad wasn't around and he was off doing work and--
Well.
Sure.
He was doing work.
But--
He was
very successful at the work he did, no doubt.
Yeah.
And you know what, though?
My mom always told me if he could be here, he would,
and that if he knew me, he would love the shit out of me.
She didn't say it exactly like that, but.
You know, your husband is telling
your son how much you love him.
But I--
He knows.
But I could be there, I can, as soon as we want.
Yeah.
That's true of anything.
That's true right now.
You could have been there this whole time, though.
That's true a month ago.
It's pretty obvious that Yeza would accept you as you are.
You're also making boatloads of cash,
which can totally go towards a great scholarship
and a retirement fund, you know?
Braces are not cheap these days.
Absolutely.
Fjord knows.
You don't want,
(laughing)
you don't want Luc filing down his own teeth.
Yeah.
That shit hurts.
No, I don't.
True that.
They look good, though, they're lookin' real good.
Thanks, Jester.
But what if I,
what if when I change, if I, when I change back,
what if I don't, what if I don't wanna stay with you guys?
Then you don't have to.
You don't have to,
that's okay, but just make sure
you're doing it for the right reasons.
It's important that you know that we want you to,
but your decision matters the most.
And if you don't stay with us,
we'll know you love us.
Mmhm.
Does thinking about going back home and having
a family life, is that an exciting thought to you?
(sighs) Yes and no.
I mean, yes, of course, I wanna be with my family.
They need me, I need to be with them and
it's all I've wanted for so long but
just to go back and to be a,
a supporting player in my story
doesn't seem, I don't know how I would feel about that.
I mean, we've had so many amazing adventures together.
You tried to kill me.
I--
And that's crazy, that's exciting.
Did, I, Nott, I didn't.
Well, I mean--
You've tried to kill me a couple times.
I almost did kill you.
No, you've tried to kill,
you've actually, you've, you've, you've,
I think you stabbed me a few times.
Oh, I'm sure, yes.
Beau has shot me in the ass.
Sorry, Nott has shot Beau in the ass.
(laughing)
You're Beau.
I'm Beau.
I'm exhausted, literally.
Literally.
Sorry.
(laughing)
(talking over each other)
(groaning)
Shh shh shh.
I throw another ball bearing.
(chuckling)
(groaning)
(laughing)
(gulping)
(choking)
(imitated exploding)
(laughing)
Shit.
You got the wrong white person.
(laughing)
I just don't know how, I don't know how to manage it.
Not knowing the Heimlich, the most deadly thing.
(laughing)
I do want to be with them, of course I wanna be with them,
and I'm worried that when I get to
be with them again, I won't want to leave.
And if I do, I'll feel shitty about it.
And when I'm with you, I'll feel great,
but I'll also feel a little bit shitty
and when I'm with them, I'll feel great
but also kind of a little bit shitty.
And I'm not brave enough to do either.
I think, I've been thinking this for a while now,
there is a truth to the idea that you coulda gone back
at any time.
Mmhm.
Have you ever really taken some sober quiet time
to think about what it is that you actually want
and not what you think you should want?
(gasping)
Sober's not my thing, really.
Well.
If it's possible to just sit
and really try and clear your mind and
figure out what it is that would bring you the most peace.
I've never really been religious or anything,
but do you think I should sit and--
Pray to the Traveler?
Definitely.
I was going to suggest
maybe some quiet meditation, but.
Is that something you can do
without believing in some god thing?
To just sit--
Only have to believe in quiet.
I could teach you that.
Oh yeah?
Yeah.
I mean, I--
It's like monk 101 shit.
A Skillshare class?
Yeah.
It's 75 gold.
You only
have to believe in yourself.
(laughing)
It's a subscription service.
I thought monk 101 was horse ass-slapping.
That's another Skillshare course.
You learn a lot in 101.
Yeah.
The first year's a bitch.
(laughing)
Backpack's super heavy.
Fucking Cobalt
(laughing)
class load.
Let's jog a mile first.
(laughing)
All right, maybe if we have some time.
I mean, we're in the swamp of doom here, we can't--
We're also pressed like sardines because we don't have,
oh no, we cleared it, we cleared it--
You cleared it, you got space.
Well, it's pretty tight.
We could do this right now.
But we're really close because we're whispering, so.
Need a little more--
Meditation is about
blocking out everything around you and your head and just--
All right.
I can help.
I'll just, yeah, I'll just poke.
I'll just poke Nott the whole time.
That's high level meditation, that's like--
She's not ready for that.
A challenge.
Should I get drunk first or--
No.
No, no.
You really shouldn't--
That will make it hard.
I appreciate that sentiment and I know where you're goin',
but no.
Maybe you should
skip that flask for a few days and think about it.
What is it considered?
Does it make you wise when you are meditating?
Do you wanna try it with me?
Am I about to lead the group in a group meditation?
Fuck yes, let's do that.
All right, all right.
Who wants to meditate?
I do.
I'm always down.
It's a yoga class
in a zombie field.
This is a first.
(laughing)
Which, mind you,
the space in here is very much like a sleepover.
You're all are kinda Tetris-ed in this interior space.
I'll also say that we all are exhausted,
so this is gonna be really hard.
Yeah, everyone's just gonna fall asleep.
Yeah.
(laughing)
(imitated falling noises)
But I'm going to wait before we do this.
Do we need a word?
What? No.
No.
Like a chanting word?
Don't you have a--
That's a
monkey chant, that's different.
A monkey chant?
Yeah.
(grunting)
Good callback.
Like a monk apostrophe Y or a monkey chant?
No, like a monkey, but I appreciate that as well, yeah.
But isn't there, I've heard or read or whatever,
don't you have to say a word
over and over to lull yourself--
I think that's called something else.
That's somethin' else.
I mean, there's many ways
of meditation, there's no real right way.
It kinda depends on what works best
for you and your inner peace.
All right, take us through it.
I'm going to, hold on, before we do this,
I'm going to cast Enhance Ability at third level
on Nott.
Guidance.
(laughing)
And also myself because the whole time we're doin' this,
I'm keeping an eye out for anything coming through the mist.
Okay.
I'm watching as well.
Enhance Ability on which ability?
Owl's Wisdom.
Okay, you got it.
(whispering)
Make a perception check.
Advantage.
Mmhm.
(dice clacking)
Guide me.
(dice clattering)
Ooh hoo, that's good.
25.
25, you're keeping watch on 'em.
The heavy cluster of these undead that had found you,
it's taken a long time, like the past hour and a half or so
that you guys have been kinda waiting and talking
and catching up a bit, they've been slowly dissipating.
There's maybe a handful that are visible
about maybe a hundred feet away or more
and even then, just barely through the mist
and only because you rolled so high.
But you don't see any immediate danger,
you haven't drawn any immediate attention,
and for the time being, you feel safe.
Are you gonna guide them through a meditation?
Everyone lay on your back.
Oh, we're laying down?
I'm gonna--
Yeah, I'm going this way.
I'm gonna do, yeah.
I'm gonna sit.
I'm gonna sit so I can keep watch.
Close eyes, open eyes?
Close your eyes.
Just being to focus on your breathing.
I feel itchy.
No, don't,
you push it out--
You are the worst.
Of your brain.
Try not to move, try not to touch anything.
Just try to release.
I am thinking
so many things now--
Stop, shut up, Caleb.
God fuckin', all right.
(groaning)
(sighing)
Ignore the fuckin' undead, okay?
Sorry, sorry.
Ball bearing.
This is the perfect place to meditate.
I don't know what it looks like,
but even with my eyes closed, this is so great.
You see it from 500 feet
and there's just, they're closing in
(laughing)
on this little glass ball.
This is the weirdest 28 Days Later reboot I've ever seen.
(laughing)
Lay out on the deck.
(groaning)
We'll say--
Namaste.
Yeah.
And I lead them through
a guided meditation.
You do.
And you know what?
Who here doesn't have a point of exhaustion?
Doesn't?
Yasha does not, right?
I do.
You do.
All right.
I don't know
where it came from, though.
Caleb and Jester, it is a very nice guided meditation.
It is weirdly calming for you, very challenging for you
for the continuous amount of information
that's going through your head,
but you do find a few moments of clarity.
You finish the meditation, you both
open your eyes, and that was really peaceful.
Everyone else is dead asleep.
(laughing)
I'm okay with that.
I'm all right with that.
(sighs) Did your spirit animal come to you?
Did you have a vision, did you?
Who you talkin' to?
We're all fuckin' out.
I was talking to them.
Are you awake?
Well,
I guided the meditation, so I'm assuming I am. (laughs)
Yeah.
It's a marsh, I was out.
Yeah. (laughs)
Tickles.
Because you know this space well, you weren't,
you weren't taken by the meditation to put you to sleep.
Sha-ka!
(laughing)
Nice cover.
What was that sound supposed to be?
(laughs) Like how to tickle.
The meditation, successful, was nice.
Eventually, you find yourselves to a comfortable rest
for the night within the safety of this dome,
hopefully for the length of time that it remains
as it is an eight hour dome and you spent the first
two hours of it talking and going through this meditation.
Oh Jesus.
But that should be fine.
As you find yourselves asleep in
the middle of the darkened mist-covered--
Wait.
Swamp.
One last thing.
Yes?
As we're going to sleep, I just want to apologize, Caleb.
I mean, I just want you to know that
I would never use anything to modify a memory
on you or Yasha or anyone that,
that we know.
You know, I know what it means.
Well,
it's a tricky thing and it's all about
what you do with it, really.
Yeah.
And you did a good thing.
You made her happier.
I think so.
And it sounds like you made your new friend
happier as well.
(laughs) Yeah.
(gentle music)
Okay.
I just wanted to make sure.
Good night, Jester.
Good night, Caleb.
(gentle music)
Under the dull moonlight against the
now relatively still marsh waters that rest around here,
the darkened dome visible,
you all find a night's rest.
We're gonna go take a break.
(whooping)
Long rest, baby, you gimme dat.
You did, you got yourself a long rest.
I, I think, knocked over, there it is,
my information sheet for the giveaway tonight.
We have our giveaway tonight
from our friends at Wyrmwood Gaming.
We're giving away the Valentine's Day Vault,
which includes a custom transcription,
transcwiption, in Quenya Elvish.
So we got, I guess, two of these
to give away on that, which is kinda rad.
You can order it now until February 8th,
so very soon, little window, at wyrmwoodgaming.com
to receive it by Valentine's Day if you're lookin' to
give one of these to a present and a special someone.
So, you got two days to get it in time.
So, the keyword.
Remember, you can only enter it once in chat.
Entering it more than once will disqualify you guys.
Once again, it's for US and Canada only, excluding Quebec
because of challenging laws.
Hey.
But yeah, the word tonight is cupcake.
(laughing)
There you go.
C-U-P-C-A-K-E, cupcake.
We'll be back here shortly to continue our story.
See ya in a bit.
(cheering)
(upbeat music)
♪ You got the perfect warlock ♪
♪ Her weapons and supplies ♪
♪ Butcha need a place to track your stuff ♪
♪ 'Cause you're so disorganized ♪
♪ You click open a webpage ♪
♪ You heard about on Critical Role ♪
♪ And now you're ready to kick some butt ♪
♪ In a mineshaft full of gnolls ♪
♪ It's D&D ♪
♪ D&D ♪
♪ D&D Beyond ♪
♪ Yeah D&D ♪
♪ D&D ♪
♪ D&D Beyond ♪
♪ You got your stats, you got your swords ♪
♪ And you got your invisible wand ♪
♪ It's D&D ♪
♪ D&D ♪
(upbeat music)
♪ D&D Beyond ♪
(dramatic rock music)
♪ Doo-oo doo-oo ah ♪
♪ Doo-oo doo-oo ooh ♪
♪ Doo-oo doo-oo doo-oo ah ♪
(bluesy guitar music)
Look at me, I'm Leatherface!
(laughing)
(chainsaw mis-starting)
(bluesy guitar music)
All Work No Play. (laughs)
Last time on Talks Machina.
We saw your face journeys, but can you talk about
your train of thought as Laura Bailey
once again proved she is the bestest at haggling?
It took awhile to realize what she doing,
but then when we did, we were like, "There's no way"--
I didn't, I genuinely didn't know what she was doing
until the, so I was like, "Is this a bit?
"Are you just doing a bit, is this?"
Ah yeah, and then, that spell--
Did you think she was
gonna really give up her hands?
I thought she was gonna give up her hands--
For a second, I was like--
I was like, "She must have
"some spell where she could grow them back?"
Jester does shit that you're like, "How did you even?
"You're so impulsive and you do thing."
Like, it wouldn't have surprised me if she did it.
It was so, it was so clutch, too.
It was so fucking crazy.
It was so cool.
She's playin' some long cons this campaign for sure.
Yes.
Yeah.
Every now and then you see somebody in one of these games
just do something so off the fucking wall.
And it was so off the fucking wall.
And she used Modify Memory in such a positive way,
which is what was so cool, it was just so delightful,
and then just, like, now the hag is like,
"Oh, I got a buddy now and I wonder where she is.
"I just wanna hang out with her."
I mean, who knows?
Maybe in the future, it won't--
That's gonna come back to haunt us.
It's gonna come back.
Yeah, 'cause Matt--
That's come back to haunt us.
Matt even did one of those, you know,
things where he says, "Yeah," but, you know,
and he's smiling while he does it that makes me think--
But in the moment.
"Oof."
But in the moment, yeah, it was incredible
to see that's what she chose to do
instead of, yeah, it was baffling.
Instead of--
Ugh, it was so good!
You do often see Modify Memory used
not that way and I thought that, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
You're right, yeah.
It was so good
and the cupcake, it was just like, ah, it was so good.
It was a, perfect, it was perfect.
As people went in and out of Isharnai's cabin, how'd I do?
Good, right.
I'm awesome.
You looked like you had a plan
but you didn't get to act on it.
The best I came up with, I came up with the idea of
Clay was thinking of offering to never go home again.
Oh.
Whoa.
So, still save everything.
Yeah, but just never see it.
But just be like, "I agree to never,
"that once it's up, it's fine."
That's rough.
That's rough, buddy.
Didn't have to do it, so.
Goddamn.
How did it feel for Yasha to be told
she was already too miserable to make a bargain with?
Does Yasha agree that she is the bottom of the barrel
or has she found some happiness with her friends?
I think she would agree with that
and I think it was almost good for her to hear that,
of like, "You're the bottom of the barrel right now."
(inhales) I do think she's slowly
finding happiness with her friends
and sort of getting comfortable
with those relationships again.
I think sort of the conversation with Caleb sort of
was nice to, I mean,
to sort of have
a companion in
misery.
When communing with the Wildmother,
Caduceus received confirmation that
his family indeed is at the menagerie.
However, Matt described this response having less intensity.
How did Caduceus interpret this?
Not all of them are there.
Okay.
Just--
That was his immediate
thought is it's just one or two of them, not everybody.
Probably one, but.
But that was how I interpreted it, anyway.
And how did he feel about this news?
Relieved and also embarrassed that he bothered to ask.
It was one of those things where you shouldn't ask,
this is not the sort of thing you ask,
that's a sign of cowardice.
Yasha made up her mind very quickly
to enter the hag's home to make a deal.
What was her thought process while listening to
Beau speak about the deal she wanted to make?
I didn't necessarily see it as one-upping each other,
but I get that, but I think all of us were like,
"No, I'm not gonna let you do that.
"I can give up something, you can't,
"but I can because you're more important."
But I think it was just sort of,
(barking)
oh!
It's Marisha!
Speaking of!
He's excited to see Marisha.
I was going to--
It was a slow walk.
Stealthily.
You can't
sneak out stealthily from that dog.
You rolled low on that stealth.
Yeah, that was a natural one.
A natural one.
What do you make of Jester leaning into
the more serious side of the Trickery domain as this was
a masterful display of subterfuge against a powerful being
rather than just one of her innocent pranks?
I feel like the innocent pranks are already
covering for the masterful subterfuge.
I think it's all a grand scheme, personally.
Yeah, I feel like, I mean, we don't
fully know what happened in there yet.
No, we actually, the characters have no--
The characters don't.
She literally just, she just ran outta there
like somebody running out of 7-11
going, "Don't ask questions."
Start the car.
Start the car,
let's go, we're going right now, right now.
Don't ask.
No, we're not leaving.
Don't look back.
No,
we're not leaving him, no.
Oh Henry.
Henry.
Henry?
He's, I feel like--
Don't go over there, that's something special.
There's a cop hiding somewhere in here.
He's been tryna sniff him out for me.
I trained him to sniff out cops.
There's a cop hiding in all of us.
Sit.
Truly,
when you think about it.
That's true.
Sit, thank you.
The Cop Inside Me?
I read that book, changed my life.
(dramatic music)
(cheering)
(whooping)
Yeah, we did it, yeah!
Sam Riegel,
you just won the Super Bowl, what're you gonna do now?
I'm subscribin' to Critical Role, yeah!
Beautiful, and that's--
It's about perseverance,
like remembering to resubscribe
with Twitch Prime every month,
yeah, ho ho ho ho.
Yes!
Well, could you--
Have done it
without my teammates?
Come on, no way!
And they couldn't have done it without the
Twitch subscriptions that I gave them, right guys?
Yeah.
Okay, Sam, but what about--
What about what inspires me, you mean?
Well, Yee-Haw Game Ranch really does.
I mean, watchin' that dehydrated piece of string cheese
Brian Foster every couple weeks
really gets me pumped for the big game. (laughs)
Sam, hold on, we have to--
(air horn blowing)
You can't believe it?
You can't believe it, is that what you said?
Well, it's true because every Yee-Haw VOD
is instantly available as soon as
you subscribe, it's amazing.
Sam!
We did it, guys.
Yeah, yeah!
Sam!
Yeah!
What? Sorry.
Just say,
"I'm going to Disneyland."
You're doing a commercial for Disneyland.
Oh.
Uh.
(squirting)
What's a Disneyland?
(exploding)
(dramatic music)
(whistle blowing)
I don't know, I gotta be honest with you--
Oh!
I got hit in the head
pretty hard out there.
Oh my god.
Whoo, uh, I'm not good at sports.
(thudding)
(crowd groaning)
(whooshing)
(cheering)
(fire whooshing)
(dramatic music)
And welcome back.
Alrighty, so we have our two winners
for the two pieces in our Wyrmwood giveaway
of these Valentine's Day inscripted bits.
The winners are thintheveil.
Ooh.
Congratulations, thintheveil.
And gamerjasmania.
Ooh.
Congratulations to the both of you.
We'll get those pieces sent out to you ASAP.
(paper rustling)
Alrighty.
Wow.
So, Mighty Nein, after a long rest is acquired,
the points of exhaustion of which those of you who
still maintain them, if you had just one, goes away.
I believe you all just have one point each.
But you awaken just as the dome itself vanishes.
You're awakened because as soon as it does,
the warm, comfortable interior and the not-as-terrible smell
suddenly vanishes and you find yourself
immediately exposed to the elements of the swamp
and (gasps) you all kind of wake up as
the cold air and the mist, still burning off
in the early morning around you, greets you to the day.
(groaning)
Early to bed--
Detect Undead.
Early to rise.
Okay.
None.
Oh.
We're good.
For the time being, anyway.
Pa-pa-pa-pow.
(laughing)
We should get out of here.
Caleb?
Yeah?
I'm beginning my spells.
Can you teleport us out or do I need to find a path?
I think so but I don't know that I can draw
upon the ground here.
You're right.
Maybe finding the path.
So we may need to walk
a little bit.
Hold on.
Lemme see, hold on.
Wait, you could--
A shape--
You could paint a ground.
I could paint a ground on the shitty ground?
You could paint--
Hold on, hold on, hold on.
A breakdancing cardboard piece.
You know what I mean?
I do.
How much space do you need to make the circle?
A 10 foot diameter circle.
Big breakdance.
Well, I could Stone Shape a couple times.
Or we could just walk.
Or we just walk out.
We walked in.
Maybe we walk until we get to ground that you can draw on.
Where do we want to go, again?
I don't know.
I guess
back the way we came?
Yeah.
Do you think our horses are still alive?
(gasping)
How do you think WCG there is doing?
No, we sent them home, remember?
I know, but do you think they made it?
No.
No, me neither.
(laughing)
Not a fuckin' chance.
(chuckling)
Oh, I'll just stay under this tree at night. (growls)
(laughing)
Well, they were disguised as moorbounders
dancing around like horses.
Oh yes, that's true.
Yup.
For how long?
An hour or something.
(laughing)
No, it was eight hours.
Eight hours.
Eight hours?
Yep.
Concentrate?
Seeming lasts awhile.
No, not concentration.
We could head that way
and see if there's anything left. (laughs)
Summons a scrap.
They were--
Or they got killed when they got into town
'cause they were like, "Ahh!"
(laughing)
They made it all the way back.
Hey!
B-listers!
Oh no!
(laughing)
That is so true.
Slay the beasts!
Also, fair.
(laughing)
Buttercup?
Oh no.
It's okay.
All right, let's move, take advantage
of the light.
They're used
to the wild, they'll be fine.
Do we have to move quietly?
Or just go as fast as we fucking can?
Kinda want that to be the reality.
(laughing)
Just 'cause it's so funny.
Are we casting your path locating spell or just takin' it?
I mean, I guess I can prepare it.
Give me a second.
If you continue to traverse here,
we will begin doing a skill challenge.
Oh, that's right.
If you're heading,
if you're walking the rest of this path--
That's why I was saying we should teleport.
We certainly can't draw it.
It's up to you.
Find the Path will help reduce the number
of successes required to make your way out.
We are done with your family?
You don't need, that's it
for now?
Yep.
You don't need to go back?
For, I have no answers.
To kidnap your brother?
Not, and I can't, not yet, I don't think.
I have nothing else to report, I don't think.
(throat clearing)
Okay, it's done.
Nothin' I can't send in
a message through Jes.
I can send a message.
She was gesturing to you, so--
Yeah.
Well--
By the way--
Then yeah, I could send a message.
That meditation stuff, I mean, it felt a lot like sleep.
Yeah, you fell asleep.
(laughing)
I didn't, I stayed awake.
We'll try again when we're--
No, you fell asleep.
Not so tapped.
Okay.
Yeah.
Maybe for the time being,
you just practice being sober.
Okay.
How has that been?
'Cause I know you were kinda doin' all right
and then, but I don't know if that's how--
I've been sneaking a lot of--
No, I--
Booze.
We've noticed.
Okay, okay.
I mean--
No, we know.
Cool, I mean--
Yeah.
It's been going great, then.
(laughing)
Mmhm.
We can often tell
because you get a little aggro.
What the fuck did you just say?
I'm just kidding.
(laughing)
Is it something you want us to help remind you with or no?
No, I like to drink.
Right.
Do you want us to help you with that?
But if I'm aiming for this meditation thing,
then I will do my best, so yes, if you catch me
taking a little nip, why don't,
Yasha, why don't you knock it outta my hand?
Are you sure?
Yup.
Yasha's the only one with permission?
Yeah, yeah.
What if
she doesn't notice and the rest of us do?
Are we allowed to--
You can tell Yasha.
Tell her?
Oh.
Are you stopping entirely or is there, are you
doing a taper thing?
No, don't ask for
clarification, wider is better.
Broad, broad.
Any time
you take a nip, I knock it out of your hand?
Go ahead, I give you permission.
What about if we go to a tavern or something and you want
something to drink?
Nope, nope.
Knock it out.
Wait,
this counts at taverns, too?
Anywhere.
Oh shit.
Booze is booze is booze.
All right.
But
a lot of taverns have decent milk.
I've seen the lumpy shit that you drink.
It's like stew, it's like dairy stew.
I have a lot of--
You could have some tea.
I also have some dust of deliciousness left.
Okay, so you can make the curdled milk taste
like a cupcake?
Yeah.
Like butter.
All right. (laughs)
New England clam chowder.
(groaning)
(gagging)
All right.
(laughing)
A nice of shot of New England clam chowder.
(gagging)
With tequila.
Oh no--
Beer and ranch dressing.
That sounds good.
(laughing)
You saved yourself and you saved us all.
So what's the plan?
Are you guys traversing the way back?
No, I am going to use Stone Shape.
Okay.
And I'm going to look for
a patch of ground that is, you know, good
and I'm gonna make it nice and flat and, like,
drawable for Caleb.
Okay.
Yeah, you can definitely do that with that spell.
So, you take a little bitta time,
keeping an eye out as well, setting up
this kind of stone flatland platform
large enough to contain this circle of teleportation.
Easily enough, it's available to you.
You can begin the inscribing on the ground.
Destination?
Oh.
Anywhere, East or West?
Where do you wanna go?
I don't care.
The menagerie.
Close to the menagerie.
Well, we can go to Yussa's.
Mm hm.
Do you want to give him a heads up this time?
We could actually be responsible, for once.
Is that, weren't we going to--
Caduceus.
To Caduceus'--
That would be on the way, that would be the way to do it.
On the way, well, I mean--
Well--
We're over here.
But I don't know if--
Menagerie is here and Yussa's over here, so--
But what he's saying I don't know if Caleb
knows any other closer teleportation circles--
I don't know.
Past that.
But we can go to Rosohna and ask Essek to take us there
Or we can get the ship.
And go to your place
and then go do the meetup.
And go to my place and then
to yours.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's a lot of seafaring.
Yeah.
That's three weeks of seafaring.
Awesome.
That sounds great.
We haven't been on a boat in a long time, you guys.
We're just gonna go on a sail for three weeks?
Yeah.
Don't we have shit to do?
Don't you wanna--
Wait, but isn't
the con coming up--
I'm going to
send a message to Orly and see where they are.
You're right, but we'd be going down there.
Okay.
We'd be going down there
anyway.
I still think--
We did tell Orly to stay, right?
We did.
You told Orly to
hang around, I believe.
Hey Orly, don't go
Stay.
We did?
Mmhm.
I think so.
Okay nevermind, I'm not going to send him a message, then.
Well, I mean, you could--
He's gonna be there.
We're right here, right?
Just to clarify--
Actually, North of Kamordah, you're more up there, yeah.
Okay, and the menagerie's here?
Yeah, but it's, Nicodranas is down further, yeah.
And just so I'm clear, we, who right now
are near another destination that we had--
Which is what?
Pride's Call.
There was another item on the to do list.
No no no--
We are going to,
sure sure sure, but we're going to choose not to do that
and instead--
Well, we don't--
Decide to go on a three week long boat trip
to a place that we can get to in one day?
Well, we decided we weren't gonna do Pride's Call
because we decided we didn't need to--
That's fine, but even going to Caduceus' family,
we could get there in a day and a half
versus three weeks of boat trip.
You mean, if we traverse all these mountains
and come down this way?
No, if we teleport
back to Xhorhas and ask Essek to just take us there.
Yeah, that's assuming a lot from Essek, though, right?
You're just like--
I don't know
if I wanna keep burning favors.
I'm happy to just take the journey,
I'm a believer in the journey.
He's our best bud.
He's our--
I can send him a message
and ask him if he can do it.
Yeah, let's ask him.
I mean, we did--
Since he's--
We did help him--
Well--
Make an incredibly powerful spell.
Seems to be--
I'm okay.
I'm personally happy getting on a boat.
I think that sounds like a lotta fun.
Either way, Orly's going to have to meet us.
That boat is gonna take three weeks.
Yeah, the boat's pretty slow.
To get to the other place.
Yeah.
Okay, why don't we ask Essek first?
That's always the first step, right, asking?
Yeah.
Yeah?
All right.
(laughs) Something to put
into practice every time.
I'm gonna
send a message to Essek.
Question: if we needed to teleport somewhere,
would you be able to do it 'cause you love us now?
Or is still, like,
not cool?
Ish.
My ADD was perfect.
Well, that depends on where are you going.
Fuck.
If it is
a place I don't know, there is significant risk.
But possibly.
We did this before, when we were chasing Obann.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
We just fell through a buncha fuckin' trees.
That's risky.
But I'm into it.
Right?
We're into it?
I mean--
Whatta we wanna do?
It's a great idea.
I think it's actually the fastest way to do it.
And then we do the stuff for Caduceus.
And then--
We can teleport to
Nicodranas.
And then we take a boat
for three weeks.
And then we take a boat.
Yeah.
Well, not for
three weeks, just for a couple weeks.
We go deal with the negotiation
and then we go to Traveler Con.
Are you wanting to take a boat 'cause you wanna--
I was excited on a boat, but--
Are you excited about the boat because
it was gonna stall for another three weeks?
I don't know.
Mmhm.
Caduceus, you're very honest, normally.
Well, if we run out of time--
I think he honestly doesn't know.
I don't know.
We could go to Nicodranas,
get on the boat, go do the negotiation,
go to Traveler Con, and then go do the stuff for your family
if you want to delay.
There is the negotiation.
No.
We have to be on the boat.
No, let's do this, all right.
Fuck yes, let's do this.
Really?
Sure.
Okay.
How much time until Traveler Con?
It's about, I think, four weeks, four to five weeks
at this point, somewhere in that neighborhood.
The negotiation--
It hasn't changed or it's--
I mean, it's only been a couple a days.
Every time I ask, it's like a day.
Yeah.
It's a day.
Yeah, it's between four and five weeks, I think.
People come and go so quickly.
I have everything I need for,
I don't necessarily know what I need to do,
but I've got everything I need to--
You have completed the visions
that brought you to Kravaraad
and you have the materials that you recall in the visions
that you required for the next stage,
but that's all you know.
Okay, yeah.
You wanna try it?
Sure.
All right, let's go to Xhorhas.
(imitated drawing noises)
Ready?
Yeah.
(imitated magical teleportation noises)
Oh, we didn't tell them.
(wretching)
Ah, shit.
(laughing)
We told the one person--
We talked about it.
That's a step in the
right direction.
Ugh.
Baby steps, guys, baby steps.
(laughing)
We're the worst.
We're incapable of
changing our actions.
We wanted to care.
Nah, really?
(laughing)
We are the worst house guests.
All right.
You all immediately return,
there we go, to the Lucid Bastion basement.
(imitated teleporting noises)
All arriving in the familiar basement,
the posted Aurora Watch spin around just to check,
that brief moment of (grunts)
(sighing)
and then they back to their post.
You walk the familiar crystal-walled halls,
head nods of recognition, though it is bustling,
you can tell that there is kind of an energy here,
probably due to the current kind of
holding of any sort of conflict.
A lotta people are figuring out what to do,
what to watch for, and what to be careful of
in that time period as well as preparations for
this seafront negotiation of which,
while the leaders will not be physically present,
there will be a lot at stake
and on the table for this discussion.
You make your way into the open Gallimaufry,
heading your way towards the neighborhood
where the Xhorhaus resides, the tree greets you,
still glowing in the eternal night that is the city.
You approach the door, chicka-ting-ting-ta-ding,
it opens, and your home is as you left it.
I'm gonna go wash all this poisony
swamp nastiness off of me.
It just occurred to me we have a lot of money.
Should we hire someone to take care of
the house while we're not here?
Well we did, but they up and left.
I don't even know where she went.
She wasn't really hired.
She's an Expositor
of the Cobalt Reserve.
I don't know
what you're talking about, I'm gonna go take a bath.
Should we hire--
No, I don't really care.
I think it's quite nice now.
But there's never any food here when we get back,
we have to go shopping.
That's what Caduceus is for.
I guess so, but--
Caduceus,
can we heat up the hot tub?
Yeah, oh, I can--
We emptied the hot tub.
We have to fill up the hot tub.
I think per the, our servant could do that for us.
Caduceus, could I have a
mushroom and moss sandwich please?
(laughing)
I can do all of these things.
It's still relatively early in the day, right?
We woke up--
At 7 a.m.
Put some stone on the ground--
You did, but you traveled a bit, so you lost a bitta time.
Okay.
So, by the time
you guys had come to and set yourself up
and so, I'd say you woulda left around probably nine.
Okay.
To have gotten
your full rest from the time you did actually sleep.
Getting here, I'd say it's close to midday.
Though, once again, middle of the night--
Right.
Here in
Rosohna most of the time.
So, you're lookin' around noon.
Okay.
So, you begin to prepare--
Go prepare the hot tub
and I'm gonna some sandwiches
for everybody.
Okay, there you go.
A proper moment of downtime. (laughs)
Crusts cut off, I assume.
What?
Crust cut off?
No, that's where all the nutrients are, right?
You said it's all in the crust.
I was just assuming you were gonna be picky.
No.
Oh, all right.
Wait, what kind of sandwich is this?
Mushroom and moss.
It's an M&M.
Caduceus' special.
Yeah, I'm workin' on it.
Tiny triangles, tiny triangles.
That's very sweet.
Like tea sandwiches.
Oh (laughs) yeah.
(laughing)
I thought it was multi-tiered.
Yeah.
So cute.
(laughing)
Is there any--
Cucumber.
While you're making sandwiches,
you guys have the afternoon here in Rosohna.
Is there anything you want to accomplish while you're
in the city, anything you're looking for or?
Yeah, I want to go shopping.
(laughing)
I have an errand to run.
Okay.
That is, I want to ask around town
and find a magical shop.
Scrolls.
Oh, scrolls in particular.
Yes.
You do know,
there are a couple of small magical shops,
if there is a place to go to get that sort of knowledge.
You can try, first, the Marble Tomes Conservatory
or you can try and look for a place
that's kind of more off the beaten path.
Your call.
I will
go to the Marble Tome Conservatory.
Okay, you do know that place.
It is a little more controlled, you know,
it's definitely more of an established location.
So, who knows?
I can't remember,
Caleb does but I can't, is that a shop or more of a library?
It is a library in a place of learning,
that is where Professor Waccoh is,
but it's also where you have the Enchanter Yun
that made her bracers was.
Okay.
So, you have a rapport there.
But it is
more of a place of learning.
It's up to you, if you think the rapport that you have--
I'll look for the shop, I'll look for the shop.
I'm gonna go bargain--
Yeah.
Bargain bin.
Yeah!
Diving.
Make an investigation check
with a disadvantage.
Come on baby, let's go.
$5 DVDs.
Yup.
I will say that--
Actually--
I was about to drop a Fortune's Favor on myself before
heading out the door.
You can do that.
We're gonna make it, just situationally here--
We're property owners.
Persuasion with disadvantage.
'Cause it's less about discovering the information.
Yeah.
The DC's lower.
But because you are a lone human in the middle of Rosohna,
it is a little more challenging to get information
out of people that don't have a rapport with you.
So, go ahead and roll.
I took out my lil
(package crinkling)
dingle dango.
You do.
And in some places--
So, with Fortune's Favor,
it's a straight roll.
Correct.
Persuasion, you said?
(dice clattering)
(laughing)
I'm sorry.
Tink.
You spend the better part of the next two hours
of people sending you, like, "Oh yeah,
"go down this road and find this."
And you get there and there's nothing there
and this one goes like, "Oh, gave you wrong directions.
"You wanna go down this corner around there."
And it takes awhile, in your earnestness,
to realize you've been fucked with.
And you've just lost a couple hours
and you've been even further lost
and you found spaces you've never been to.
You do come across a very large almost a
hedge maze-like garden on the edge of the Gallimaufry,
it's the only thing of interest you come across,
but it is beautiful.
You see an elderly lizardfolk who's out there
kind of tending to the garden.
That's it, that's the only thing of interest you run into.
Job well done, Caleb Widogast.
I Keen Mind follow the trail I took to get to this spot
back home.
Okay, you got it.
Good times.
Sorry, buddy. (laughs)
Anybody else, anything you wanna
accomplish while they're in the city?
I'm making a really nice tub.
It's gonna be--
There you go, some herbs--
Oh yeah.
Get some flowers in it.
Get in a good soak.
Yeah.
There you go.
Candles, the whole--
I'm gonna wander to the Corona District.
Ah, yes.
And see if I can find
a servant for hire.
Okay.
You have a much better time than Caleb did.
Yeah, there is work to be had.
You go into there and you can see
there are a lot of individuals that are
hanging out in front of taverns.
Some of them look relaxing but some of them
when you get close with kinda that look you
in the eye kind of like, "Hey, you there.
"You lookin' to hire?
"You got any building work, you building anything?"
Maybe--
Imagine I can help ya.
Maybe, what's your skill set?
Somebody else is like, "Ah,
"don't listen to him, he's fulla shit.
"Me and Joey over here, we can totally getcha covered,
don't worry."
You and Joey, eh?
Yeah.
What's your skillset?
I'm looking for--
Jodak, but we call him Joey.
In home care, home care.
Yeah, no.
We care about many homes, they're great, is that right?
And he's like, "Yup."
Oh boy.
Yup.
More of like
a butler sort of a thing, I think not.
He changes his posture.
"Of course, we can help you in
"whatever you require, isn't that right?"
The guy's, "Yup."
Hm.
Perfect.
Ah, no thank you.
I'll just keep perusing.
Ah, you son of a bitch!
And he's just kinda screamin' at you. (laughs)
There isn't a housekeeping service necessarily
but I'll say, in asking around, you do come across
this really, really sweet, young kind of bright-eyed
drow girl who has her,
her platinum-white hair goes to almost a purple tint
at the tips and she keeps it very well kept in the back
and kind of tied in two places, she's dressed in
nice, standard clothing and you catch her brooming
on the exterior of what looks to be a small livery.
And immediately you catch the attention
of somebody that looks, you know, non-threatening,
non-aggressive, and, apparently, is clean.
Hello there, young miss.
Do you work here?
I do.
Oh, and your job is to keep things clean and orderly?
That is one of my jobs, yes.
Oh, I'm looking for me, for my friends and I are
looking for someone to help us with our home when we travel.
Would you be available to moonlight in that sort of a job
or are you, you know, on salary here or something?
No, I am, well now, what are you paying, perhaps?
Oh boy.
What do you make here per day?
Well, my standard rate comes to about
one gold five silver.
That sounds fine to me.
Per day?
Sure.
(laughing)
(coughing)
Sounds good to me.
She'd be better--
Is there a
monthly rate or is just every day--
This is for an extended engagement--
Yes, we sometimes travel for long periods of time.
And we need to be able to trust you, can we trust you?
Can you trust me?
Insight check.
Go for it.
She gives you these very waifish
doe-like eyes and this soft smile.
21.
(chair scraping)
I get a whisper?
That's right, get up.
I get a whisper outta this.
You notice the hilts of two daggers
poking out of her--
Yeah, no shit.
(laughing)
It's the inevitable end.
Braces, bracers?
This whisper
is brought to you by Skillshare.
Or did I get those?
I've got those bracers.
Yeah.
Wait, you have them?
Do you use them?
Nope--
She made the bracer--
'Cause you
have to have no armor on.
Oh, right.
And you're wearing?
My Frodo armor.
I like you,
I like the cut of your jib.
What's your name, child?
Vidalla.
Vidalla is beautiful.
I don't trust her at all.
Unquestionably beautiful.
She's just gonna
rob us blind.
What do we have in there?
As soon as we leave.
A hot tub and a tree.
How about this, because I know that
my friends would not appreciate me
hiring someone without at least a negotiation.
So, you would do it for one gold, four silver per day?
If that's what would you prefer, of course.
You were talking about a monthly rate,
right?
Yes.
We could go for the daily rate,
if it is something you're more preferring.
For a monthly rate, we could do it for, let's say
40 gold for the month?
I think that works.
Sure, yeah, that sounds great, let's do it.
But you know what?
I can't hire you without introducing you to my friends,
so could you walk across town with me?
I'm a stranger and I'm a goblin.
(laughing)
Certainly.
Goes out and sets the broom back inside and goes,
"Detta, I'm taking my lunch!"
Totally different.
Whenever.
(laughing)
(clapping)
What was that? Okay.
Follow me.
Of course.
All right, I'll walk her back to our place.
Perception!
I'm gonna go--
This is the beginning of the movie Parasite.
(laughing)
Oh my god.
Did you watch it?
Oh yes--
It's so good.
Best movie of last year.
Anyway, continue.
I'm gonna go upstairs
to the tree.
Okay.
To where we have all of our--
Shrines.
Shrines, yes, thank you.
And I'm going to cast Word of Recall.
Where are all these fuckin' spells comin' from?
Oh.
The massive Cleric list.
Shit.
I'm gonna cast
Word of Recall on the little shrine
I've made to the Traveler.
Okay.
Of the lifetime recall.
Oh yeah, well I have--
Ah, you designate the sanctuary.
Yes.
Gotcha, okay.
So, you have now, (sighs) as you complete the spell,
you can see the tree itself suddenly
begins to drop some of its leaves.
These green leaves kinda slowly drift down
and as they hit the ground, a little light kind of
(makes poofing noises) under each one.
Eventually they all shatter (imitates wind)
from a breeze that seems to come from nowhere
and you sense the familiar presence of the Traveler
kind of smiling upon this particular land.
Awesome.
Shit.
Anybody else doing anything?
You don't have to, you can just wait
if you're not particularly going to do something.
Oh, you have the +2 Bracers of Defense, you took them?
Those were +2?
Yeah.
The ones you have are +2 already.
Oh yeah, mine are the exact same.
Okay.
Mm hm.
Yeah, maybe I can sell these or something.
I'll figure it out.
That thing where
you order something online and immediately see
something just slightly better after that.
(laughing)
I have a better price.
Yeah.
It's like $8 cheaper and it comes with another option.
But you can only wear 'em if you're not wearing armor.
Oh, yeah, maybe I'm armor on--
Yeah, you got armor on.
I'm not sure.
Yeah, you can't be wearing armor.
Oh yeah, 'cause it ups your
armor class.
Yeah.
No shield, no armor.
Got it.
Can you, Nott?
Nott has armor.
Nott has armor, nevermind.
Everybody's got armor now.
Everybody's got armor.
Jester, can I play with Sprinkle for a little bit?
I'm sure Sprinkle would love that!
Don't bite her, okay?
Thank you.
He's a little, um,
skittish.
Okay, I'll be very careful.
(weasel chittering)
I'm gonna take him and try to give him
a little bath and fluff him up in the hot tub.
Okay.
Oh, he's gonna hate it.
Now, to be specific here, based on recent adventures
and the return from where you were,
it very much looks like one of those viral videos
when they're cleaning animals after an oil spill.
(laughing)
Sprinkle is just like (imitates hacking weasel).
The Dove commercial.
That's the same thought
I had.
I'm sitting in the
corner of the hot tub with my plate of sandwiches, just--
Look, I haven't been giving,
I didn't give him a bath 'cause he almost drowned
and he's like Nott and I thought maybe
he didn't want to be in the water, is all.
No no no, we all were so messy and I just,
I thought he could just, you know, get him all fluffy--
He seems like he likes it, so
you're doing a good thing.
Yeah yeah yeah, okay okay.
Also, a bunch of zombies exploded acid
all over him.
Yeah.
(laughing)
He was protected, he was in my hood, that's why.
Bold move, bold move bathing a dead animal.
(laughing)
You have to prepare them--
Five cents a day.
(laughing)
But nevertheless, you do eventually clean Sprinkle off
and it's a good thing you're a Barbarian.
Your hands are pretty tough
and the shear amount of bites that would've
definitely hamburgered someone with a softer grip's hands--
For the price of a coffee.
Your thick skin in your mitts, fairly resistant,
especially when it starts pissing you off and you start
rage washing it.
Oh.
You take half the bite damage from the little--
(laughing)
Oh no.
The little weasel.
I'm gonna towel him off and make him all fluffy.
Make him look all cute.
(snarling)
(imitated poofing)
(laughing)
Whoa, whoa, what weasel smells
so bad?
That's stinky.
(laughing)
I wanna put a little flower on him, see if it stays.
Through the process, roll an animal handling for me.
Yes.
I'm curious.
Oh boy.
Yeah.
Please be one.
(dice clattering)
(laughing)
Well.
Three.
(laughing)
(makes breaking noise) Oh!
So, when--
(laughing)
No, no, no.
No, no.
No, but--
(laughing)
Mending, mending.
As Yasha brings you back your sweet weasel, it's less of
a presentation and more of a, "Take it from me."
It's going (imitates angry weasel)
and it's actually in the process of gnawing--
Okay, okay, okay, okay.
Oh, that was so
sweet of you, Yasha.
He just, he was
a little bit of, we all were a mess and--
Oh, he looks so cute now.
He's gonna look
so much better, you know, on your--
He's got a flower on him.
Here.
Ah!
He's--
(laughing)
He's, it's weird because he's not very friendly.
He gets really worked up.
Caduceus?
Yeah?
Do you any, like, little bugs or pieces of meat
or anything you can give him?
He might be hungry.
I'm gonna, would you like a sandwich?
Would you like a sandwich?
He calms a bit.
Yeah, yeah, he wants a sandwich.
Ah, come here.
(curious weasel chittering)
(nibbling)
There you go.
You want another sandwich?
(weasel chitter)
Yes and also, also for me, thank you.
(chuckling)
Eventually, you calm.
(laughing)
Sprinkle is definitely already kind of reticent
around Yasha.
Oh.
You could work towards it, but it's
a step back in that relationship.
I don't need to, I think, he just was looking
a little weird.
But right now,
it does look like a very nice kind of
boa right now with the fluffed up red hair.
Thank you, Yasha.
You're welcome.
You look good, Sprinkle.
It looks really good now.
It's like a really nice--
Yeah.
Ding ga-ling-ling.
Oh.
Company, family meeting, house meeting.
I'm telling him.
Wow.
I've got to introduce you to your potential employers.
They might have some questions about
your CV and your past work experience.
Of course, of course.
Nott, what the fuck?
No no, this is fine.
I've brought a young lady here, her name is Vendetta,
if I remember--
Vendetta?
I don't really remember, was it--
What's your name?
Your name is Vendetta?
That's not my--
Be nice.
What?
(laughs) She introduces herself.
Do you guys have any particular questions, like,
I don't know how much time you wanna spend on this.
All of it.
Okay.
(laughing)
Yeah, totally.
Someone to just
steal things from us.
Of course.
This could be our person who takes care of the home
when we are away.
Oh, okay.
'Cause she, I know her qualifications are
she can use a broom and she speaks our language.
Oh, that's wonderful.
Do you steal things?
No.
Why would I steal something?
Well that's excellent.
We have the ability to monitor
every room in this house, so--
Why wouldn't you steal things?
Beau, what, what are you--
No, I mean, you only should trust someone
who knows that they could steal things but then also has
the restraint and the loyalty to know that they shouldn't.
I'm gonna cast Zone of Truth.
All right, you cast Zone of Truth.
On all of us, as many people that I can--
Everyone make wisdom saving throws.
Oh my god.
(dice clattering)
10.
Natural 20.
Aw.
Oh.
21.
13.
Seven.
I'm just gonna lie about everything 'cause I can.
Five.
So Yasha,
Fjord, and Caleb--
And me.
And Nott fail.
And so does she.
Okay, good.
All right.
Are you trustworthy?
I like to think so.
This would be a better job than
the one I currently have and--
How much do you currently make?
Currently, I make about, heh,
four silver pieces a day.
Wait!
That, oh, interesting.
No, what?
No.
No, keep goin'.
How much--
I was gonna say--
Cleaning--
"Wait, that seems low."
Horse and moorbounder manure.
Oh.
Do you clean houses?
I have before but it's been some time.
You guys got this?
Mm hm.
Okay good.
Don't you wanna
ask something?
No, I'm good.
Whatta you mean you're good?
Do we all need to be here as we interview
the housekeeper?
Yes!
This is a house meeting.
I said house meeting, that means the whole house.
What's your biggest fear?
Do you have any experience taking care of houseplants?
(thoughtful humming)
No.
Do you feel prepared to learn how to take care of plants?
I think so.
Okay.
Do you like me?
(laughing)
You seem aggressively likable.
I like you.
Are you afraid of weasels?
Why?
She's afraid of weasels.
What's your favorite color?
Blue?
Green.
Who are you asking?
You.
Oh, blue.
Green.
What's your favorite color?
Oh, I don't have one.
Oh, that's weird.
Wait, you don't have one?
That is weird.
I mean, I've known you for so long and that is
the weirdest thing--
Nott, favorite color.
Yellow.
Oh, well.
(laughing)
I don't pick favorites.
But how do you see the world?
Silver.
Silver?
Yeah.
Nice.
That's a good color.
See that?
What about yours, Jester?
Pink.
How do I see color, is that what you're asking?
Yeah.
We will have some
important things we need to get to if, you know--
Yeah, yeah, you're totally right.
Does anybody have a crush on me?
Oh.
Jester,
you know everyone does.
What?
No.
Okay, back to you, though.
What's the most expensive silverware you've ever stolen?
I've never stolen--
Lies.
She's lying.
No she's not,
she's telling the truth.
You're right, she's telling the truth.
What did you tell,
(laughing)
what did you tell her?
What are you talking about?
Beau, are you drunk?
(sighing)
I don't trust her.
If you don't trust me, I can go.
No, no, no, no--
Let's put it to a vote.
Yes, let's vote.
All in favor--
Do you have good intentions here?
Do you want to keep a job here?
Are you going to try to do anything shady?
Those are different--
Yeah, but--
I would like, I have good intentions, I would like to,
you know, live above the current means that I do.
If you are people that are very difficult to work with
and keep, then I wouldn't stay in this job.
We're not, we're never here.
Let's vote, all in favor.
Yeah, of course.
Hey, you're hired.
Congratulations, when can you start?
How much do you make?
We had discussed 40 gold each month for the housekeeping--
Holy fucking shit--
Nott,
that's what I'm talkin' about, that's what--
What's wrong with that?
Maybe she drove a hard bargain.
It's insane.
Is that insane?
We have lots of money.
She currently makes four silver.
This would be a raise.
Is that high,
did you quote something very high for us?
I have a turnip, give me--
It would be better than what I'm making now at the--
Yeah, by 5,000%
Stables.
We'll pay it, you're hired, you start today.
Thank you very much.
I'll get my stuff.
She's a grifter, I can smell it on her.
One recognizes one of their own, all right?
You say that about literally everyone
we meet.
Yeah, you're projecting
super hard right now.
Yeah, you're probably right.
(laughing)
All right.
Take care of the house.
We don't have any keys, guard the door if you like.
(laughing)
Am I starting now or tomorrow?
Immediately.
Yeah,
you can start right away.
Okay.
You sleep in the hot tub at night.
No, no.
And you can't tell
your previous employers.
She's lying.
You can't speak to your previous employers.
You can't lie.
If you do,
they'll be killed.
That was a joke,
it wasn't a lie. (laughs)
That's not true,
I can't say that. (laughs)
Okay.
Sorta true.
This is very strange house.
We're aware.
We're glad you're here.
Can we go now?
Yeah.
We're going to--
Essek.
Oh, to Essek.
Are you leaving now?
Just asking, it's up to you guys.
I mean, what else are we going to do?
Yeah, let's go.
Yeah, we should just go.
Thank you, watch the place.
There's instructions on how to
take care of the plants in the kitchen.
(laughing)
Okay.
I have a question.
Yes.
If I cast something from a wand,
do I need the spell components for it
or does it cancel it 'cause I have a wand?
It'll usually say for most wand-based magical items,
"Without material components."
Okay.
I think the wand handles it, I don't think
you need the components for the wand--
Got it, okay.
I think.
What wand do you have?
Pretty sure.
I have the Wand of the Solitary Scout
and I have the Wand of Smiles.
You don't the guano if you're using
a Wand of Fireballs or anything,
it's part of the enchantment that the wand handles it,
I'm pretty sure.
Wands up.
It's rolled in the phosphorus like a churro.
I will get my things and begin immediately.
Do we have, we have a, we have quarters for that,
right?
Pleasure to meet you.
Yeah, there's an extra room.
That makes life easier.
What was her name again?
You know what?
No really,
what was your name?
I don't remember--
Vendetta.
And I'm not sure
that Matt does either.
I literally said it
on the spot and forgot to write it down,
not so much help on that.
Vendetta, it's Vendetta.
You know what, we'll ask her when she gets back.
I can't ask her--
We'll ask again later.
What was it?
I think it's
Vidalla or something, I should've--
Internet--
I'm usually good
about writing it down and I'll find it out tomorrow.
I can't ask her 'cause she'll know I didn't remember,
so one of you ask her, all right?
Vidalla.
All right, so I wasn't too far off.
No one selfs-name themselves Vendetta.
Vidalla.
Without its use.
Yay, we have somebody working for us.
That's pretty cool.
You're welcome.
Nicely done.
That was
a really high price, though, because, you know,
we have people that clean up my mom's quarters and stuff
and they cost way less than that.
Well--
I think.
(laughs) I mean, doesn't matter to me.
'Cause we're all splitting it, so.
No, no we're not, that's okay.
Yeah, we can split it if you want.
Oh yes, Essek?
Oh, we'll be right there.
It's quite urgent that we get to his place.
He's messaging you?
All right, let's go.
Yeah.
All right.
(laughing)
You head your way over toward
Essek's home after finishing up here.
You head to his familiar towers where you had
previously enjoyed the cheese and crackers provided to you.
You're greeted by Essek, who leads you
back into the interior.
"Well, I was not expecting you to return to Rosohna so soon.
"I take it your journey was successful?"
Yeah.
We believe so, yes.
Should we try the spell again before we go?
I mean, I haven't even really meditated about it yet.
Oh, you're right, okay.
Well, you said you needed to travel somewhere, so.
Yes, is it okay?
Yes, it's okay.
I, (chuckles) you know,
it prevents me from some of
my capabilities throughout the day each time I do this,
so while I'm here in my home and things are
not requiring me to be elsewhere rapidly,
thankfully this is a moment in time
in which I am more useful here in the city.
But?
It's greatly appreciated.
I'm sure we'll find a way to balance the scales some time.
Is there any news on your end?
What I know is many of the (sighs) many of the
elements of the military on both sides are holding
hard lines at the exterior of previous battlefields.
There has been some small scale negotiation
and discussion as far as preparation for this gathering.
Ships have already set out with
the prisoner from one of our outposts.
It is quite a long trek from our side of one end here.
I believe the same has begun traveling from
the Dwendalian Empire to eventually
find its way toward the Menagerie Coast.
Are we going to miss the negotiation?
It takes weeks.
The negotiation is about
three, three and a half weeks from now,
I believe.
Okay.
So, as long as you can ensure your return by then.
Otherwise, it'll just have to continue without you.
Wow, okay.
It's that
and then Traveler Con is days later?
Yeah.
It's pretty rapidly after.
We'll be close.
That's less than a week
after where the negotiation is set
is when Traveler Con's probably gonna happen, so.
And the volcano's out in the water, too.
So, where would you like me
to take you?
Caduceus?
Oh, we're going to--
The menagerie.
Yeah--
It's a vast space, yes?
So, somewhere more specific?
Can you describe
exactly where we're going?
No, I've never been there.
Oh.
Didn't you say
it was near the forest that we
have been to?
No.
Do you not know where I'm supposed to be taking you?
That is--
Where's the map--
That is impossible.
No, we know,
we know where we're going.
I know the name of it.
It was the high, it was the forest down,
that's the wrong map.
Wrong map.
(paper rustling)
Is it this one?
Nope.
We need Xhorhas.
We have so many maps.
It's right there, it's right there, it's right there.
(thumping)
Get out the map.
It was this one?
Thank you.
Yeah, it's, yeah, it's over here.
Down here.
Uh, Whitedawn Lagoon, if I recall.
Is that where we're--
Whitedawn Lagoon, right.
Okay, I've not been there, but I know of its existence,
that puts us in a possible chance of arriving.
Are we gambling with fate by going--
Should I scry on the Whitedawn Lagoon?
Can I scry, I can't scry on a location.
I always forget this.
I don't have it prepared anyway.
I don't have it prepared either, so I could not,
it would be helpful to me to do so.
Which means we can either go now and chance it
or we can try tomorrow.
Let's chance it.
Chance it.
What's life without a little risk?
So much can go wrong with this.
Of course, but so much can go wrong with all sorts of--
That's so true.
Elements of magic.
Exciting, though, as we've experienced together
once before, sometimes painful.
Mmhm.
But if you insist.
Let us all take hands,
if you are ready.
Oh boy.
Just for fun, I'm going to make a prayer for everything
to go well.
Oh.
(dice clattering)
Nope.
(laughing)
The Wildmother is silent.
I'm going to--
It was a long shot.
(laughing)
Put my hands on Essek's shoulder and I'm gonna say,
"The Traveler is with you, my child."
Thank you, Jester.
Yeah.
Come, come.
And he kind of glides over into
the center of his main chamber.
You watch as he kind of moves that way,
the furniture (imitates scraping furniture) kinda scoots
on its own to the sides and leaves the open space.
Puts his hands out.
You all clasp hands and he goes, "Whitedawn Lagoon.
"Fingers crossed."
(whispers) And as he begins to finish incantations,
you can hear the voice echos growing louder and louder.
You can see on the ground between your feet
these little kind of light gray lines begin to
(makes whooshing noises) connect you all in the center.
As it grows brighter and brighter and then
foof, you feel that familiar sound of
you all being pulled into nothingness.
I need somebody to roll a D100 for me.
Taliesen--
Tal do it, yeah.
(dice clattering)
Ho.
That's
99.
Whoa.
It is?
Is that good or bad?
Yeah, it's 99.
I don't know.
Hold on.
I'm trying to--
It's hard to read--
Divine Inspiration, that woulda been amazing.
Yeah.
That woulda been--
If I rolled that last time, that woulda been crazy.
(chuckling)
Mercer's early page turning is interesting.
Think that's--
I throw 11?
Yeah.
Super bad.
Not good.
Not good, that's not good?
No, actually, it's really good.
Okay.
So, it's really good?
That is on target.
Oh.
Oh wow.
That's super duper
on target, right?
One way or the other.
You had a 25% of this succeeding. (laughs)
(surprised murmuring)
'Cause this is only based on a description,
he's not even viewed it before.
Oh geez louise.
There's a 43% chance
for a mishap on that one, but you rolled a 99.
I rolled a, look at that,
that's really pretty.
Yeah, that's really good.
Those are the dice you got me,
by the way--
Yeah.
They've been good dice.
Good.
They've been really good.
So,
voof, you all suddenly go from the cold night
to the bright midday sun of a bluer sky above.
You can see most of the clouds that
you're used to seeing in the Dwendalian Empire not there,
aside from a few small plumes of white across the horizon.
You are partially looking out to what looks to be
a green kind of grassy stretch of hill that then
vanishes before you see ocean to the South,
the glittering waters of the Lucidian Ocean.
You kind of look to your right and behind you
and you can see the elements of a mountain range
that vanish to the North, broken gray rocks
and it looks like a deep ravine that begins to
carve its way Northward from where you stand.
It's a number of miles away,
it's barely visible on the horizon.
But immediately before you, you can see this vast jungle,
this dense tropical forest that seems to wrap around
and encompass a large portion
of this shore-side cliff expanse.
(gentle music)
You assume that you're probably pretty close to
or right at the area known as the Whitedawn Lagoon.
Essek immediately goes, "Ahh.
"Ah, I think this was a success."
This looks about right.
When was the last time you saw the sun?
It's been a number of, I think probably since
the last time I took you somewhere this bright.
Does it hurt you?
It's not comfortable, but it is tolerable.
Is this what you were seeking?
Does this mountain range look familiar from my vision?
The mountain range itself isn't familiar to you,
but the visions you've had definitely,
your visions specifically are of an oasis
in the middle of a jungle.
Sure.
You don't know which one or where.
And so, none of this is familiar to you,
but you seem to have been brought to where you requested.
I get down on the ground and paint a parasol
and pop it out and go, foonk.
(laughing)
Thank you, Jester.
You're welcome.
He's so cute with his parasol.
I'm going to--
There's dicks--
(laughing)
(talking over each other)
He's Mary Poppins, y'all!
(laughing)
I'm going to sit down, send out a little,
I'm going to face the mountains.
There's a jungle, I assume, in front of us,
towards--
Yes.
(gentle music)
(throat clearing
And
I'm going to cast
(pages flipping)
Commune.
Okay.
I'll sit down
off and to his right, behind him.
Okay, kind of lend your presence to the commune as well?
Mmhm.
You've got it.
(gentle music)
Does my destination lie before me?
As you kind of focus, all of you feel
the still air become a warm seaside breeze,
a welcome shift from the colder climates
which you've traversed as of late,
and familiar to those who grew up in the Menagerie Coast.
This further South on Xhorhas definitely resembles
the places where you two grew up.
As the warm wind kinda blows through, (blows)
you get a sweet smell, a familiar smell,
this kind of sweet, honeysuckle-like flower aroma
that reminds you of times in your youth
when you were on the right path
and the wind blows in the direction of the jungle
in front of you, the trees the swaying inward. (blows)
Is it under a day's walk?
The breeze comes to a still, still blowing but gentler.
You get the sense that the answer is inconclusive.
Is it dangerous?
The breeze picks up
once more but is rapidly cold,
not in a way that it denies it but
definitely confirms that there is danger ahead.
(gentle music)
(inhaling)
About a day's journey, it is dangerous,
but we head this way.
Lead the way.
Okey dokey.
Do you know what we're looking for?
A house, a hill, a grove?
An oasis.
Are we walkin' along the beach or--
No, we're walking into the jungle.
Great.
Hm.
You can hear the various jungle birds and wildlife
giving off loud caws and crows and distant insects chirping.
It's a wild, tangled space.
Essek goes, "Well, that is not for me.
"Thank you, Jester, and good luck."
And kind of glides over and lands down into a patch of sand
and begins to take his finger and carve out
what looks to be a teleportation circle.
Thank you, friend.
Thank you.
Of course.
Continues his work.
Spitball.
(laughing)
(gagging)
The jungle awaits you.
Okay, shall we?
Thank you for this.
You don't teleport to a place like this,
you have to make it there.
Are we cheating in some way?
This is as close as I was comfortable getting.
Now we make it.
Now we walk.
Okay.
All right.
You guys--
Mm hm.
Begin to trek your initial steps into this jungle,
stepping over heavy thick base roots,
pushing past all manner of flora and fauna,
heavy ferns that rise up to maybe five, six feet,
some even taller the further in you get.
The path that you trek is not a path,
there is no walked path in this area,
you're having to climb over and carve
probably the first steps from this point of entry
that have made their way from any journeyman.
I'm going to try and let as much flora, fauna,
and animal life know why we're here and what we're
looking for and that we're just passing through,
heading to the oasis.
All right.
The air itself is very warm, which is comforting,
especially given the last night that you spent
in the chilly mountains on the
Northern side of the Cyrios mountain range.
Numerous heavy vines wrap around
the thick, thick tree trunks, a number of which
begin to wrap and cluster in front of you,
forming small barriers that you kind of have to
hack through and push your way around.
You find small nests of insects and other
small woodland creatures built along bases and upward.
Some of these trees, sorta like banyan tree-type,
these thick, squat trees with these heavy, heavy
just dozens and dozens of thick branches
that build up into the large canopy,
each one kind of knotting and tangling with the next,
forming this network with occasional breaks
where you can see the dust and pollen and other sorts of
various nature-based clouding material
that drift through and elements of light peek in beams
that begin to greet you as you
push from one barrier to the next.
The smell and the scent is
profoundly comforting, though odd.
It is nature in a way that is full of life.
It's sweet, similar to the smell that
came with the breeze of your commune
but more varied and diverse in the way that
it affects the memories that come to mind
that are connected to some of these kind of smells.
Who's keeping watch as you progress into this?
What is the marching order?
Oh jeez.
I'm assuming you're in front--
I'm in front, I guess.
Caduceus is the leader, yeah.
I'll be behind Caduceus.
I'll pull up the rear, maybe.
I'll go behind Fjord.
I'll take the center of the line if--
I'll go behind Yasha.
I'll protect Caleb and Nott.
Fjord, you're behind Caduceus?
Fjord and Yasha with swords, slicing through.
Yup.
All right, so you're,
so Fjord and Yasha up there, right there.
How hot is it, by the way?
Down here, I'd say it's probably,
it's not terribly hot, it's mid-80s.
Oof, I definitely take off my
overcoat--
Coats off, for sure.
Yeah.
Holy moly.
Yeah, so it's not terribly hot,
but given the amount of things you have on
and the sense of the clothing you've been
wearing for different climates,
you're immediately starting to sweat.
We'll take off--
So Beauregard,
you're here in the middle with Caleb, you said?
Yeah, I'll be directly behind Caleb and Nott, I think,
next to Jester.
Okay, there you go.
Caleb's hair is gettin' really long, so he puts it up.
You gotta kinda--
Topknot or a little
ponytail?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Or the little half, the little halfer?
No, full ponytail.
Full pony?
Yeah.
Mm, that's good.
Rolled up the sleeves.
All right, so.
Halfer--
You just tie it in a knot?
Yeah, just have this ribbon, you just kinda
and then do a little loopy-loop.
This is going--
Yours is
getting there, actually, yeah.
Gotta put a little itty bitty--
Ah, like more two more weeks.
Are you on your way to karate class, loverboy?
Do a ribbon on that bitch.
I pick like a piece of grass and tie it around.
There you go, nailed it.
Fuck yeah.
(laughing)
So, it's getting mid-afternoon at this point.
With your time in Rosohna, you probably
are a few hours away from dusk.
You push for the first hour in,
this is gonna be another traversing
a dangerous element of nature skill challenge.
So, who wants to helm the first leg of this?
I'll do it with a Perception and my sense of where
I was being led.
You got it.
Before we head out, Caleb reaches a pearl
way up high to Caduceus' forehead and casts
for a few moments and casts Fortune's Favor on you.
All right.
So it's--
One luck for the day whenever, it could be now,
it could be later.
All right.
Nice, so Perception, I'm gonna
give myself a little boost as well.
Yow.
I'll just do a small--
That's 21, 24.
Ooh.
24, okay.
Damn.
In helping lead the group forward,
you find what seems to be the clearest path
that doesn't immediately cause you
to slow in your travel through.
The earlier parts of this jungle are dense,
but it's getting denser, and at least this first part
doesn't seem to be as dangerous as you surmised
the interior may have been alluded to
by your conversation with the Wildmother Melora.
It's beautiful, it's calming, and for those of you
who have never spent much time in tropical settings,
in particular you, Yasha, who, of everyone here,
has probably been the most removed from
a lot of these spaces, it is, it's gorgeous.
And some of the flowers, themselves bright and vibrant,
you can't help but wanting to kind of pick and keep.
Caduceus,
can I take a flower from here?
Let me know and I'll ask permission.
Some of these things also do bite, you gotta be careful.
Make a nature check for me.
All right.
(birds tweeting)
(dice clattering)
I wanna re-roll that, I'm using my,
pff, even worse.
So soon?
Already?
Poof.
That was sad, a four.
What?
Wait, what was the other?
Eight.
As you get to look at the writing on the--
So, you just take the--
It's like a luck point,
so you can roll twice and then
take the higher.
Lemme check.
Oh, then eight.
Oh.
(pages flipping)
Ooh, hot dog.
(laughing)
Choose which to use.
Eight.
(laughing)
Okay,
I don't know which ones are--
You point out one flower, you think,
"Oh, that's brightly colored, that's probably dangerous.
"That one's kinda muted, that one you can probably pick."
Pick.
I asked permission, of course, before we
You did, it's more or less consent.
Yeah.
(birds tweeting)
You really don't know what you're talking about
in this particular instance, but luckily,
there wasn't a huge issue with this one,
so you pluck the flower without a problem.
(aggressive hissing)
Yeah, you were very lucky.
(imitated scrabbling)
What is it--
Oh god,
oh god!
What is it?
It's a kind of--
It was a cricket.
Like a teal color that towards the edges of the petals,
and it's a wide flower, it's that big,
the edges of the petals, it tends to go to a deep sea blue.
It's a frog that looks like a flower.
It's very pretty.
(coughing)
It does that, too.
But you manage to find the best path forward
that does not slow your progression into the jungle.
Who wants to helm the next leg of this?
I will try.
Oh.
Yeah.
All right.
Can we--
What're you doing
to help here?
Kind of--
Oh, mm.
Beep.
Wa-wa-wa-wa-wa-wa.
(smacking)
Ah.
Mosquito.
No, that was just Liam.
Oh.
(laughing)
I'll step forward and I'll say, "Listen,
"you fucking jungle, I'm a Paladin of the Wildmother.
"You're gonna move or we're gonna bust you right open.
"We'll wreck this place.
"Don't make me fuckin' tell you twice."
Can I intimidate it?
(laughing)
Go ahead and roll intimidation.
I love that you tried to
deceive and intimidate.
This is not going to
go well.
Yes, intimidate the woods,
yes!
21.
Yes!
Okay.
You shout out loudly into the jungle,
out in front of your, just yelling.
You can see all these birds like (makes fluttering noise)
scatter from above the canopy, things start
rushing and running outta the space.
It looks pretty quiet.
(laughing)
Not bad.
I could intimidate it,
for sure
It's the hairdo.
Yep.
Yeah.
You take a confident step forward.
(imitated slamming noise)
Ahh!
(laughing)
A massive plant that was just beyond the root
you were standing on just devours Fjord,
just completely vanishes inside of a large flytrap-like pod.
Use your luck point!
(laughing)
Oh no.
You hear--
I try to pull it open.
Roll a strength check.
Okay.
Oh my gosh.
(dice clattering)
I'm giving you a D4--
Take
eight points of acid damage, Fjord.
(groaning)
I'm giving you a D4 on that, too..
D4? Okay.
Yeah.
(laughing)
Oh, good. 18?
18.
(groans) You start pulling the pod open.
You're in there, it's not enough to quite get him out,
like you don't pull him out, but the pod is open.
You can go ahead and attempt to escape if you'd like.
I would like to please, yes,
I summon the sword and just try and--
I'll say it's easy enough.
Okay.
This plant looks
more dangerous than it really is and between the two of you,
you manage to get him out and it slowly
kind of like (makes ripping noise) pulls open.
(screaming and panting)
Good job, Fjord, now we know to watch out for those.
Yeah, maybe we should be quiet, just a thought.
Sorry.
Ah, it stings.
(laughing)
The pod is a purplish color on the outside,
which is very glaring, but when it's open,
the interior itself is almost perfectly
camouflaged with the extremely green--
We need to definitely--
So, now we know what to
look for.
Yes.
We look for ground that looks like ground.
It looks like a big-ass mouth.
(coughing)
Careful.
Sorry.
Smart.
(laughing)
All right, who would like to take this next leg?
Um.
Oh boy.
I'll take it.
Okay.
Good.
Okay, well what skill,
what are you attempting to aid this journey with and how--
Oh, I was just gonna do a survival.
You could do the survival, that's a way to do it.
No, let me think if there's something better here--
Just explain how it pertains to--
It's better than intimidation.
(laughing)
If you rolled high enough,
I was like, "I'll figure out somethin'."
Can I try to
look at the path and
investigate to see if there's a nice, easy way through?
Investigation could possibly, yeah, you could
give it a shot.
Slow down, Orphan Maker.
Puts the pearl up to her head.
Beep beep beep beep beep.
It lasts for a whole day?
Wow.
Lasts for an hour.
Hour, okay.
'Kay.
(dice clattering)
That means I can re-roll?
Yeah, right now.
Okay.
Oh, it's cocked.
It's cocked again, I'm sorry.
Throw that die in the--
No, I love it,
though, when it rolls well.
(laughing)
When it rolls well.
It certainly wasn't the last time you rolled,
that was really bad.
19.
19, okay.
You do slow the travel of the group slightly
because you're taking the time to be very careful.
This is your, while you're not used to jungle,
you're definitely used to dangerous marshland
and tangled paths through heavy vegetation,
though a very different kind, but there's
some elements that are consistent through
and, you know, Beau backs you up a little bit too,
being very keen in the eyes, but peering through,
you find the areas that immediately look like
they've been walked a little more by the wildlife,
which means they're the ones that are probably the most
successfully traversed by those that live here often.
And following those paths, those trails,
and the signs of edges of trees where you can
see darkening coloration from animals that have
brushed against it to mark their territory and such,
you see the familiar signs of these things and go,
"This is probably where we should go."
And you do manage to get on for another hour or so
without any serious issue.
Hey!
It is starting to get dark.
What's the ground look like here?
I mean, it's rough.
You could take awhile to search for
a place to set up a dome comfortably,
that'll probably take the rest of the time
before the daylight closes, or you can--
Caleb lights up his hand as they're walking.
Mmkay.
Do you think, should we--
You'll have to probably clear a area, too, to make--
We try to, like, find a dome spot
or travel through the night?
There are also trees here.
I mean, I've heard of camping in the trees.
Actually--
Yeah, there's probably
large cats and evil animals, maybe, that live up there.
What're you basing that off of?
I don't know, the books I read?
We're near the menagerie, which means there could be
all sorts of strange animal life, it could be very varied.
Is there a tree nearby?
There are trees everywhere nearby.
Surrounded by trees.
Tall ones?
They're all, I mean, from what you can tell,
I mean, the canopies are kinda low for
the thickness of them, they're very squat jungle trees.
You're not quite sure how tall, you know,
from where you currently are, they are,
but some of them are probably a good 20 or so feet up.
I'm gonna, if I'm nearby, judge the
tallest one that I have and climb it.
Okay, this one looks to probably close to 30 or so feet.
All right, climb it for vantage.
Okay, go.
I'm gonna smack her butt
on the way up and say, "Traveler loves you."
Thanks.
You're guided.
You can take the athletics or acrobatics, your choice.
I will take acrobatics.
Half fire up your butt.
And do I have a, my wall run type of situation,
my Unarmored Movement?
Yes, you do.
That's right 'cause you can--
Run up vertical surfaces.
So you actually probably don't even have to roll for this.
Monk yeah.
Frickin' monks.
Yeah, this is part of the, ch-ch-ch, there it is.
(birds tweeting)
What's up with that?
That's an interesting looking die you have there.
This is the goldfish.
Oh, it's the goldfish.
Oh, that's right.
Oh, that's awesome.
Yeah.
(birds tweeting)
That's part of the Slow Fall on them?
No, Unarmored Movement.
Oh, there it is, gotcha.
So yeah, with your current movement,
you could probably just, don't even have to roll,
you can just run up that tree.
Cool.
"Thanks, Traveler," and I run up.
You see Beau just gets a running start and
(makes running noises) and vanishes.
She is.
She thinks it's
the Traveler, it's just because Jester
smacked her on the ass, though.
There you go.
Yeah.
I'm just very invigorated by that.
I respect it.
Okay, you head up to the top and glance over
and immediately, your eyes are kind of taken by
the bright sunlight.
Oh, it's still daylight.
Well, it's, you're getting close, you have about
an hour or so before you lose all daylight,
it's starting to get that dusk color,
but it's still setting in that direction
and the bright kind of orange-yellow color of it that way
catches you from the dark canopy that you ran up.
Dark under the trees.
It's beautiful, though.
The view here, you can see all the ocean
to the distance, just past the canopy,
and it's thick and it goes on endlessly.
In fact, all you can pretty much see is just green
and a little bitta blue on the horizon to the South.
And that's kinda what catches you in the moment.
I try to, I kinda blink my eyes to focus.
Any clearings nearby, any patches?
Make a perception check.
(dice clattering)
Bilbo Baggins.
You still have that D4.
Okay, okay--
Butterflies.
I still have a D4?
Baggins moment.
Butterflies.
From--
From the bless?
She didn't burn it,
the bless just holds until you use it.
Oh, you used bless.
I got it.
No.
No, not bless, it's--
Guidance.
Guidance, guidance just holds until you use it.
You used that for a round, I'll allow it
'cause you ran it pretty quick in one round, sure.
Okay then.
I'll allow it.
That is 25.
Up to a minute.
25, okay.
Yeah, total.
Guidance is up to a minute.
Oh, up until used? Got it.
That's right, that's right, a minute.
All right, so yeah, you kind of focus your eyes
for a second, glance out and you--
Doin' it for Jester. (groans)
You think you see,
probably about a quarter mile off
in a Southwestern direction,
an area where the canopy kinda folds in a bit,
what would be a small pocket that
isn't completely flush with the rest of
the treeline within your immediate vicinity.
That is, wait, what?
Isn't.
By a clearing.
Okay.
There's a little clearing.
The closest you can think of is--
A quarter mile West, is that what you just said?
Southwest of where you--
Southwest, okay.
I climb back down.
Quarter mile, Southwest, follow me.
Yeah, not far, like 10 minutes.
All right.
Quarter mile, yeah.
Mmkay.
20 minutes, 30 minutes.
Following Beau's lead--
15 minutes.
And you guys
continue to carve through the jungle path.
You eventually come upon a small element of the clearing
where you can see a tree has fallen.
It was, you know, either it was really old or really sick.
It kind of collapsed under its own weight to one side,
the roots tearing up on the one end and you can see
the inside of where the exposed roots of it are,
it's been kind of hollowed out and it's probably home
to a number of creatures that aren't currently present.
But it is a clearing where you could
place the dome relatively comfortably there.
You'd have kind of clear the floor
from some of the nearby ferns and other--
Is it my imagination that something probably lives here?
I mean, there's a--
I'll just take a look to see
if it seems like something big lives inside this tree.
Okay, make a nature check.
Oof.
(dice clattering)
(paper rustling)
My nature is terrible, which is part of the fun of this.
14.
14's not too bad.
From what you can tell, elements of this
have been carved and hollowed out by
probably some sort of a rodent-type creature,
based on the tooth marks and the scratches,
probably no larger than that size
and probably a dozen or so have made homes within
the base of the tree.
How big would I imagine
these creatures to be, like this big?
Like about as big as I just showed you,
yeah.
Okay.
There's a buncha little animals that live in this.
I don't know if we should camp inside,
I think maybe off to the side--
Sprinkle, you can make some friends!
We don't disturb them.
Oh.
I don't think he wants to make--
Maybe he'll want to stay here forever.
(wheezing)
Where he can live, can live a life of an animal.
For like a day.
Sprinkle, do you want to
stay with me or do you want to
live the life of a wild creature?
(throat clearing)
Should we make a hut?
Let's make a hut.
She doesn't wait for an answer. (laughs)
Just make a hut.
(laughing)
Yeah, you can set up.
Okay.
But after clearing the space a bit
and by the time you get ready for it,
you are losing the last bit of daylight,
so the timing's pretty perfect, actually.
As Caleb is preparing, I'll take a little sip of whiskey.
No, no.
I knock it out.
Wait, what?
I backhand your flask.
I dodge it.
Roll an attack roll.
(chair thumping)
Reckless.
You can be reckless
if you want to.
Oh, yeah,
yeah yeah yeah, of course.
Oh wait, what was that?
(dice clattering)
Oh yeah.
(snorting)
22.
I mean, that hits, yeah.
Yeah.
(yelling)
(laughing)
(whooshing)
(pinging)
It lands a little ways off.
I pick it up.
Ooh.
You told me to do it.
I was just sort of kidding.
You weren't.
No, you weren't kidding.
Not at all.
We're keeping you accountable.
All right, good.
We're a tribe now.
That was a test and you passed.
Okay, well do you want a sip for being good?
Yes.
That was a test.
(laughing)
You failed.
Okay.
I put it in my bag.
(laughing)
(clapping)
Beautiful.
I love all of this.
Alrighty.
You set up the dome without issue.
The nocturnal beasts of the night begin to
go about their evening hunt and you can hear
the distant sounds of creatures you aren't familiar with
(birds tweeting)
kind of growling,
purring, making calls to each other in the distance.
It's unsettling but you feel comfortable here--
Making calls to each other in the distance.
Hello?
Hey.
I'm just real curious how your night's been over there
'cause it's real heavy over where I live.
Do you hear all these bugs?
(laughing)
Mom?
But who's taking first watch?
If you're taking any watches or if
you guys just all going to sleep.
You feel pretty comfortable but it's up to you.
I'm gonna stay up for just a little bit
and I'm gonna draw, I'm gonna take out
Molly's tarot deck.
Mmkay.
And I'm gonna draw on one of the cards.
I've thought of one of the cards that I want to make.
Ooh.
Okay.
What is it?
On one,
so you know that optical illusion where one side looks like
a old lady and you flip it and it's like
a pretty woman?
Uh huh.
You know what I'm talkin' about?
Yeah, yeah.
I'm gonna make
a dual card and one side's going to be the hag
and then when you flip it over, it's the maiden.
Ooh.
Oh.
That's hot.
And so that card's
called The Hag and Maiden?
The Hag and the Maiden.
They each have two names.
Do they look like you?
That's very cool.
Maybe.
(laughing)
She may be like a little blue color in the folds.
That's good, that's good.
All right.
I have a quick thing I want to do before bed as well.
I'm not taking a watch, or maybe I will,
but I get out the ingredients I need to cast Find Familiar
and I place my raven cat down in the center
and mutter a few words and spend the time on it.
Oh, it takes an hour--
It takes an hour.
And 10 minutes.
And suddenly I have a small capuchin monkey.
Ooh.
Okay.
With--
Ooh.
Little speckled spots all over him.
Cool.
Alrighty.
Slick, slick slick slick.
You see Sprinkle try to escape the dome.
I volunteer as tribute.
(laughing)
(imitated scrabbling)
It does not have the passcode to come back in, so.
(laughing)
Sprinkle is curled up, comfortable, in my hood,
a little unnerved by all of the crazy noises.
A little unnerved.
Yeah.
(laughing)
New development.
So,
you finish summoning your monkey and go to bed.
You're finishing the card--
Summoning the monkey all night long.
(laughing)
(snorting)
Wizard shit.
Every Wizard's early days at school,
(laughing)
spend a little too much time summonin' the monkey.
All right.
But Jester, you're taking the first watch?
Mm, mm hm.
Yup.
Mm hm.
'Kay.
(whistling)
Everyone else is asleep
for the early portion of the night.
In that time that you're finishing your card drawing
and getting excited,
you can't help but kind of
catch something in the corner of your eye
and outside of the dome, beyond the edge of the glade,
you see a familiar green robe.
(gentle music)
I get up and go.
Okay.
This is bad, right?
No?
I think it's fine.
No, it's fine.
They're just gonna go fuck in the woods.
You step out of the dome and quietly make your way
beyond the clearing where--
What're you doing?
The Traveler waits as you.
Come with me.
You've always been so quick to learn, so very clever.
I grow so proud.
I think it's time.
Time for what?
Do you trust me?
With everything in my being.
Come.
And he turns and walks further into
the darkness of the jungle, a faint kinda green glow
lighting up the space around him as he walks.
I glance back at the dome and take off after
the Traveler.
Okay.
As he walks, you can see kind of out of
the corner of the green light,
the vines almost expanding and growing more vibrant
around him, flowers kind of (make poofing noises).
As he steps to an area and kind of
puts his hand to one side, you can see
one of the trees kind of very quietly bends and moves aside
where a little corner of the jungle is kind of serene
and removed from the dense expanse
around you.
Wow.
Is this the oasis?
No, this is your oasis.
It's a place to talk.
He stands and turns facing you.
And he pulls his hood back,
(gasping)
revealing his almost elf-like features,
but more exaggerated and fey, his long ears
curling behind the head, beyond any elf's that you've seen,
his almond-shaped eyes of emerald green and brilliant
beneath these thin feather-like brows.
A voluminous orange-red hair curls down the back of
the head like a lion's mane and he smiles.
Jester, you are my first disciple,
the first one to truly carve the world
with your cunning, your joy, and your mischief.
I trust you.
And are you ready for the absolute truth?
Yes?
I am the Traveler but it was not always this way,
for when I traveled here, it was a world before me
where I was without burdens,
without responsibilities, and without limitations.
I drank deep of the muted colors
of Exandria, straining to exit.
I plucked at and knotted the lives of many fools
from the shadows, amusing myself by
leaping into every whim with glee and purpose.
And one day, I met a little girl who sought that same spark,
a little girl who found joy in exposing life's
most subtle hypocrisies, a little blue girl
who lived a life so small but felt in her heart
there was so much more to see.
This little girl and I found a kinship
and in her child-like wonder, her view so untempered by
the sanctimonious morality of man, and she saw me as a god.
So, for her, for you, I donned the mask of one.
I found that with such pure, absolute faith
granted towards me, I was exhilarated.
I began to seek others who might be
waiting for such guidance, to bring a bit of,
well, necessary chaos into the world.
One by one, I traveled and found
more souls who needed direction,
who found themselves in our shenanigans.
It was beautiful.
Eons of living for only myself, I found a new joy
in helping others find themselves in a world
cruel and painted in dull, divided pigments.
With each new faith, I confined myself,
I could feel myself becoming what you believed.
(gentle music)
Then more came.
Playful pranks turned into demands,
prayers fighting for my attention.
Freshly freed from previously imposed boundaries,
I had managed to really construct my own.
While such faith granted me power
beyond what I thought possible to achieve,
I was being spread too thin across
those who I'd taken under my wing.
I thought to bring them all together,
to unify their causes and perhaps forge a community
under this banner, my banner, our banner.
We are weeks away from the gathering of my lost children
who have wound their lives around my boons and counsel.
The truth, Jester, is that I have no idea what I'm doing
(gasping)
and I need your help.
That's where it ends tonight's episode.
(yelling)
(clapping)
Holy shit. (laughs)
(talking over each other)
Fuck off, David Bowie!
Fuck off, no one wants you here, David Bowie.
(laughing)
Oh my god.
Go back to your home, David Bowie.
It's a cult.
It is a cult.
This was Jester's fault the whole time.
(clapping)
Maybe not a cult--
Yes.
It's a cult!
No,
now he's gonna be a god, he is a god.
There's paper pants, it's a cult.
Elven futures--
It's Artagan!
It's Artagan.
Totally Artagan.
Come on.
Totally.
You're saying yes?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah.
(dice clattering)
Holy shit--
Maybe it's not a cult.
David Bowie, just David Bowie.
I have no idea what I'm doing?
Oh no.
Honestly, if I were ever to meet a god
and they said that to me, I'd be like,
"Okay, and now I believe that you are."
(laughing)
(clapping)
This got way outta hand.
Traveler Con is just Artagan strangling 500 people.
(laughs) I mean--
Wait, do I really, Artagan, Arta, there was--
Yeah.
Ar-tah-gan or Are-tai-gan?
Ar-tai-gan.
Artagan, Garmelie,
and then it was like binding was actually Artagan--
Right, Garmelie was like the faun father--
Yeah yeah yeah yeah.
Oh my god, oh.
Holy.
So much--
For so long, just--
Garmelie was the faun.
Was that an illusion for us?
Yeah yeah yeah, it was like his changed shape.
Yep.
Little trickster faun.
Yeah.
Oh fuck.
You did this, I'm so excited.
You did this.
(talking over each other)
(laughs) It's so funny.
It doesn't necessarily need to be a bad thing.
No, it's not, it's super awesome.
It's a clusterfuck.
It's a complicated thing, is what it is.
It's a club that you've started.
You started a club.
You did.
You started a club, maybe you become, maybe--
Married to somebody and then found
the secret door to their basement.
(laughing)
Oh my gosh.
No.
(laughing)
It's so much more.
No, this is fine.
It's so amazing.
It's totally okay.
Yup.
It was the trigger of your trickery last session
that he was like, "Okay, maybe she can help me."
(laughing)
Oh my god.
Holy fuck.
Shit.
I love it.
I love it so much.
Oh my god.
It's gon' be interesting.
But we'll pick that up next week on Thursday.
Thank you for joining us.
Look forward to seeing you guys next Thursday
and hopefully those stick around on Friday, Valentine's Day,
to check out our Monsterhearts 2 one shot.
But until then, have a wonderful night,
we love you very much, and it's a Thursdate.
G'night.
(dramatic music)